  
**Animals**  

**Sleep** (Di+Oi)  People with Savior Sleep will hit the brakes, preserve, introspect, and process on the front end.  Where the Savior Plays will jump in, expend energy, cause chaos, learn, and then do a small amount of processing on the back end.  Sleep energy is when your two Introverted Functions work together.  It's those quiet moments in your day when there are no distractions or external stimuli.  Just you alone inside your mind going over your known information.  "*Why does this keep happening?  How can I stop tripping over the same problems everyday?  Who do I want to be?  How am I going to get there?*"  When talking, the Sleeps will be speaking from a more resolved, processed, narrowed down, less pinging state compared to the Plays.  The challenge for the Savior Sleep people is they will tend to not jump into new, random, things with the tribe.  Though this saves them energy, they lose out on random new growth and experiences.  In some way, shape or form, the Sleep conversation is just about the same old info about self. 

**Play** (De+Oe)  People with Savior Play learn by pinging off of others, jumping in, giving it a try, talking it out, etc.  The Plays are fast to learn but also fast to forget.  Because they are not doing the Sleep-downloading, much of their day is in fact relearning the same information over and over again like it's new.  Where the Sleep people will expend massive amounts of energy on the front end to figure out how to save themselves energy on the back end.  Play energy is just your De and Oe working together to learn quickly with the tribe.  "*Hey I can help with that\!  Let's do it now together\!  Ok, what do you want me to do?  Here, let me hand you this\!  Yay, we are doing it together\!*"  When the Plays talk, they will be in more of an unprocessed, unresolved state where they are rediscovering their known info as they talk.  Sorting it out as they go and trying to get ping-back from the other person.  In some way, shape, or form, the Play conversation is just random, new info about others.    

**Consume** (Di+Oe)  People with Savior Consume learn by taking in new information by themselves.  They will prefer to have time alone to read, study, and take in as much new, random info they can on their chosen subject.  Because they have Demon Blast, it is hard for them to narrow it down and communicate to the tribe in a clear way.  The Consumes never feel ready to get started.  There is always more to learn.  The Consumes will tend to talk in tangents and bounce around to all the "open files" in their mind.  They will take you along in the story and not give you the clear bottom line or conclusion of the story.  "*I was doing research on a new program we could use for work, here is where I found it, and this article has so many good points.  Anyway, here is what I like best about it...*"  (Ok, what is this about?  What is this for?  Do we need this?).  The tribe is left with the void of narrowing down and making it work for others (Blast).  In some way, shape, or form, the Consume conversation is just more random, new, info about self interests.  

**Blast**  (De+Oi)  People with Savior Blast learn by jumping in, trying it, and teaching others.  The Blasters can take a little bit of information and quickly feel ready to try it and teach it to others.  Blasters will automatically narrow down and share their info with others in the form of some kind of a lesson.  This can be nice at first, but others soon notice that the Blaster is running on empty.  Where the Consumer may have a take in to share ratio of 5 to 1, the Blaster is the other way.  For every little piece of info they take in, they share 5x that amount.  "*Hey everybody, I just saw a video on this new subject, let me give you a lesson about it\!  I'm speaking in a loud authoritative tone even though I have no idea what I'm talking about\!  That's ok, I'll figure it out as I go.*"  Though the Blaster is getting results by getting started quickly, the tribe can see they are running on empty.  In some way, shape or form, the Blast conversation is just about the same old info about others. 

**Introverted / Extroverted Person**  

**Introvert**  An Introverted Person is defined by having an Extroverted Animal last (Blast or Play).  This means they have the two Introverted Animals (Sleep and Consume) in their top three Animals.  This majority of Introverted energy means they are sneaking away and doing Introverted actions in a Savior state.  This also means where they are having their Demon swing in that last Extroverted Animal.  The Introverted roommate is the one who is always sneaking away and leaving voids.  The tribe becomes annoyed at their constant void leaving and lack of communication.  Every few weeks the Introvert will then swing and have an explosion of Extroverted energy in a manic state.  The Introvert's life tidalwaves are coming from too much research and processing, and not going out and attacking the outside world.  

**Extrovert**  An Extroverted Person is defined by having an Introverted Animal last (Sleep or Consume).  This means they have the two Extroverted Animals (Blast and Play) in their top three Animals.  This majority of Extroverted energy means that they are moving and engaging the outside world in a Savior state.  This also means where they are having their Demon swing in that last Introverted Animal.  The Extroverted roommate is the one who is always moving and expending energy.  Even if they are not talking to people, they are still moving throughout the house doing things.  The tribe becomes annoyed at them because they can never get any rest.  The Extrovert always has one more thing for them to do with them.  Every few weeks the Extrovert's body shuts off and they have an Introverted crash.  The Extrovert's life tidalwaves are from attacking the outside world too much, and not slowing down and going inward for self. 

**Information / Energy Dominant**  

**Information Dominant**  All types that have Consume and Blast in the top 3 Animals (and therefore Sleep or Play last).  Traits include; respecting information, learning, teaching, good communication, not goofy.  In contrast to Energy doms, the Info doms communicate well in a conversation.  They will both listen and share in a normal, balanced way.  They take information seriously and have a "knowledge is power" view of the world.  For example, they tend to dress up and take their Linkedin profile seriously.   Their style of humor is usually done in a discussion format.  They are not generally into goofy, slapstick style humor.  Think of Jerry Seinfeld where he has an intellectual conversation picking apart some scenario that he finds interesting and funny.  Info doms would be considered "Double Observers" when it comes to the information of Consume and Blast, but "Single Deciders" when it comes to Sleep and Play.  Because Sleep (Double Introverted Functions) and Play (Double Extroverted Functions) are on the poles, it's harder for them to see themselves and the tribe.  If they are Play Last, then the tribe is seen as wildly destructive, chaotic, and hard to predict.  If they are Sleep last, then the tribe is like drugs to them and they always need to be pinging off the tribe.  This leaves their personal inside world very underdeveloped and unknown.  This is why the Info doms want to discuss topics for hours to overwork the information because the Sleep and Play is so hard.

**Energy Dominant**  All types that have Sleep and Play in the top 3 Animals (and therefore Consume or Blast last).  Traits include; respecting energy, time, fun, working, resting, and getting things done.  Compared to the Info doms, the Energy doms work well at getting things done.  "*Work hard, play hard*" is their motto.  They prefer to dress cozy and will wear sweatpants a socially inappropriate amount of time.  Their style of humor is more on the pie-in-the-face, goofy, slapstick, low brow type of humor.  Think of Larry David where he is yelling insults and throwing things and then runs away and takes a nap.  Energy doms would be considered "Double Deciders" when it comes to seeing self (Sleep) and the tribe (Play).  But "Single Observers" when it comes to knowing the Consume and Blast of information.  The Energy doms would rather skip a conversation and just go work on the thing and then rest, then have to have real back-and-forth conversation with others.  The Consume last already feels like they know more than enough and are bursting with confidence to just go get started.  The Blast last feels like they have more info than everyone else, no one is listening to them, and they still need more info, so why share anything?  Both Energy dom types prefer to be left alone so they can go work and then rest later.  This builds up a massive void with the information and it comes crashing down when they realize they have been wasting their work hours on a project that they don't even have all the info on.  Because they feel calm with spending energy, they'd rather just go redo the work and/or rest more, than to ever have a back-and-forth conversation. 

| Di/Oi  Sleep   |  |  |  | Di/Oe  Consume   |  |  |  | De/Oi  Blast   |  |  |  | De/Oe  Play   |  |  |  |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| ***S**C/B(P)* | S**C**/P(B) | ***S**B/C(P)* | S**B**/P(C) | *C**S**/B(P)* | **C**S/P(B) | **C**P/S(B) | *C**P**/B(S)* | *B**S**/C(P)* | **B**S/P(C) | **B**P/S(C) | *B**P**/C(S)* | P**C**/S(B) | ***P****C/B(S)*  | P**B**/S(C) | ***P****B/C(S)* |
| Fi/Ni | Fi/Ni | Fi/Ni | Fi/Ni | Fi/Ne | Fi/Ne | Fi/Ne | Fi/Ne | Ni/Fe | Ni/Fe | Ni/Fe | Ni/Fe | Fe/Ne | Fe/Ne | Fe/Ne | Fe/Ne |
| Fi/Si | Fi/Si | Fi/Si | Fi/Si | Fi/Se | Fi/Se | Fi/Se | Fi/Se | Ni/Te | Ni/Te | Ni/Te | Ni/Te | Fe/Se | Fe/Se | Fe/Se | Fe/Se |
| Ni/Fi | Ni/Fi | Ni/Fi | Ni/Fi | Ti/Ne | Ti/Ne | Ti/Ne | Ti/Ne | Si/Fe | Si/Fe | Si/Fe | Si/Fe | Ne/Fe | Ne/Fe | Ne/Fe | Ne/Fe |
| Ni/Ti | Ni/Ti | Ni/Ti | Ni/Ti | Ti/Se | Ti/Se | Ti/Se | Ti/Se | Si/Te | Si/Te | Si/Te | Si/Te | Ne/Te | Ne/Te | Ne/Te | Ne/Te |
| Si/Fi | Si/Fi | Si/Fi | Si/Fi | Ne/Fi | Ne/Fi | Ne/Fi | Ne/Fi | Fe/Ni | Fe/Ni | Fe/Ni | Fe/Ni | Se/Fe | Se/Fe | Se/Fe | Se/Fe |
| Si/Ti | Si/Ti | Si/Ti | Si/Ti | Ne/Ti | Ne/Ti | Ne/Ti | Ne/Ti | Fe/Si | Fe/Si | Fe/Si | Fe/Si | Se/Te | Se/Te | Se/Te | Se/Te |
| Ti/Ni | Ti/Ni | Ti/Ni | Ti/Ni | Se/Fi | Se/Fi | Se/Fi | Se/Fi | Te/Ni | Te/Ni | Te/Ni | Te/Ni | Te/Ne | Te/Ne | Te/Ne | Te/Ne |
| Ti/Si | Ti/Si | Ti/Si | Ti/Si | Se/Ti | Se/Ti | Se/Ti | Se/Ti | Te/Si | Te/Si | Te/Si | Te/Si | Te/Se | Te/Se | Te/Se | Te/Se |

 IxxP    IxxJ    ExxP    ExxJ  

\]

| Di/Oi  Sleep   |  |  |  | Di/Oe  Consume   |  |  |  | De/Oi  Blast   |  |  |  | De/Oe  Play   |  |  |  |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **S**C/B(P) | S**C**/P(B) | **S**B/C(P) | S**B**/P(C) | C**S**/B(P) | **C**S/P(B) | **C**P/S(B) | C**P**/B(S) | B**S**/C(P) | **B**S/P(C) | **B**P/S(C) | B**P**/C(S) | P**C**/S(B) | **P**C/B(S)  | P**B**/S(C) | **P**B/C(S) |
| Fi/Ni | Fi/Ni | Fi/Ni | Fi/Ni | Fi/Ne | Fi/Ne | Fi/Ne | Fi/Ne | Ni/Fe | Ni/Fe | Ni/Fe | Ni/Fe | Fe/Ne | Fe/Ne | Fe/Ne | Fe/Ne |
| Fi/Si | Fi/Si | Fi/Si | Fi/Si | Fi/Se | Fi/Se | Fi/Se | Fi/Se | Ni/Te | Ni/Te | Ni/Te | Ni/Te | Fe/Se | Fe/Se | Fe/Se | Fe/Se |
| Ni/Fi | Ni/Fi | Ni/Fi | Ni/Fi | Ti/Ne | Ti/Ne | Ti/Ne | Ti/Ne | Si/Fe | Si/Fe | Si/Fe | Si/Fe | Ne/Fe | Ne/Fe | Ne/Fe | Ne/Fe |
| Ni/Ti | Ni/Ti | Ni/Ti | Ni/Ti | Ti/Se | Ti/Se | Ti/Se | Ti/Se | Si/Te | Si/Te | Si/Te | Si/Te | Ne/Te | Ne/Te | Ne/Te | Ne/Te |
| Si/Fi | Si/Fi | Si/Fi | Si/Fi | Ne/Fi | Ne/Fi | Ne/Fi | Ne/Fi | Fe/Ni | Fe/Ni | Fe/Ni | Fe/Ni | Se/Fe | Se/Fe | Se/Fe | Se/Fe |
| Si/Ti | Si/Ti | Si/Ti | Si/Ti | Ne/Ti | Ne/Ti | Ne/Ti | Ne/Ti | Fe/Si | Fe/Si | Fe/Si | Fe/Si | Se/Te | Se/Te | Se/Te | Se/Te |
| Ti/Ni | Ti/Ni | Ti/Ni | Ti/Ni | Se/Fi | Se/Fi | Se/Fi | Se/Fi | Te/Ni | Te/Ni | Te/Ni | Te/Ni | Te/Ne | Te/Ne | Te/Ne | Te/Ne |
| Ti/Si | Ti/Si | Ti/Si | Ti/Si | Se/Ti | Se/Ti | Se/Ti | Se/Ti | Te/Si | Te/Si | Te/Si | Te/Si | Te/Se | Te/Se | Te/Se | Te/Se |

Introvert  Extrovert

| Di/Oi  Sleep   |  |  |  | Di/Oe  Consume   |  |  |  | De/Oi  Blast   |  |  |  | De/Oe  Play   |  |  |  |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **S**C/B(P) | S**C**/P(B) | **S**B/C(P) | S**B**/P(C) | C**S**/B(P) | **C**S/P(B) | **C**P/S(B) | C**P**/B(S) | B**S**/C(P) | **B**S/P(C) | **B**P/S(C) | B**P**/C(S) | P**C**/S(B) | **P**C/B(S)  | P**B**/S(C) | **P**B/C(S) |
| Fi/Ni | Fi/Ni | Fi/Ni | Fi/Ni | Fi/Ne | Fi/Ne | Fi/Ne | Fi/Ne | Ni/Fe | Ni/Fe | Ni/Fe | Ni/Fe | Fe/Ne | Fe/Ne | Fe/Ne | Fe/Ne |
| Fi/Si | Fi/Si | Fi/Si | Fi/Si | Fi/Se | Fi/Se | Fi/Se | Fi/Se | Ni/Te | Ni/Te | Ni/Te | Ni/Te | Fe/Se | Fe/Se | Fe/Se | Fe/Se |
| Ni/Fi | Ni/Fi | Ni/Fi | Ni/Fi | Ti/Ne | Ti/Ne | Ti/Ne | Ti/Ne | Si/Fe | Si/Fe | Si/Fe | Si/Fe | Ne/Fe | Ne/Fe | Ne/Fe | Ne/Fe |
| Ni/Ti | Ni/Ti | Ni/Ti | Ni/Ti | Ti/Se | Ti/Se | Ti/Se | Ti/Se | Si/Te | Si/Te | Si/Te | Si/Te | Ne/Te | Ne/Te | Ne/Te | Ne/Te |
| Si/Fi | Si/Fi | Si/Fi | Si/Fi | Ne/Fi | Ne/Fi | Ne/Fi | Ne/Fi | Fe/Ni | Fe/Ni | Fe/Ni | Fe/Ni | Se/Fe | Se/Fe | Se/Fe | Se/Fe |
| Si/Ti | Si/Ti | Si/Ti | Si/Ti | Ne/Ti | Ne/Ti | Ne/Ti | Ne/Ti | Fe/Si | Fe/Si | Fe/Si | Fe/Si | Se/Te | Se/Te | Se/Te | Se/Te |
| Ti/Ni | Ti/Ni | Ti/Ni | Ti/Ni | Se/Fi | Se/Fi | Se/Fi | Se/Fi | Te/Ni | Te/Ni | Te/Ni | Te/Ni | Te/Ne | Te/Ne | Te/Ne | Te/Ne |
| Ti/Si | Ti/Si | Ti/Si | Ti/Si | Se/Ti | Se/Ti | Se/Ti | Se/Ti | Te/Si | Te/Si | Te/Si | Te/Si | Te/Se | Te/Se | Te/Se | Te/Se |

Info  Energy

\- [Needs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lDw-g7P56_gnOHjtbz9a0CQnZRK2VmuM-yYScn69rVQ/edit) \- [Functions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkCiCVM2cG5ErqB7pzYdDtoR4IuLS5z-ZTBVKKmoTHY/edit) \- Animals \- [Sexuals](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kmbAvg5f3FFqygEGhwsFeUtOf8AEkgWp_Onlg6msiCo/edit) \- [Socials](https://docs.google.com/document/d/106Y1W3ui8IUMptspLebPQTfdBLXaF-wg359vUcR-kkQ/edit) \-