  
**Letters**  

**(S) Sensing** (Si, Se)  *Proving, facts, details, an account of what happened, very little guessing, jumping, or assuming*.  Because their Intuition Function is a Demon, they will be slow to make abstract guesses without facts to back them up.  The Savior Sensory is obligated to prove, ground, and provide facts of what has actually happened.  Only after the facts are established are they "allowed" to guess.   The difference with the Savior Intuitive is that they will make entire points that are based on just guesses (and will get the facts "later").  Not all Savior Sensors are the same, like all Functions there is a spectrum.  Those that have Feminine Sensory in the middle will use their Intuition much more compared to say, Masculine Sensory at the top.  Compare the Sensory morning routine report to the Intuitive one below:  "*When I get up in the morning, I first drink some water, then I check my emails, then I take a shower, then I eat breakfast.  Overall, my morning routine is pretty efficient*."  The Savior Sensory's life is a build up of facts, details, and information of what happened, but they can't easily see the connections, categories, and concepts.  "*I don't understand*" is something they say alot.  In some way, shape, or form, the Savior Sensory is obligated to provide the facts before jumping to the guesses and understanding later.   

**(N) Intuition** (Ni, Ne)  *Categories, summarizes, guessing, assuming, understanding, relating to, analogies, very little supporting facts and details*.  Because their Sensory Function is a Demon, it will be hard for them to say the obvious.  It feels like they are faking it, but when asked to give more details of a situation they really start to stumble.  The Intuitive runs for the overview, summary, the concept, what it's like, the bottom line, and therefore pushes away the details.  To the Intuitive, the details don't represent the whole.  Those were just the details for that one time, and if you look at just those, you miss the bigger picture, category, and concept.  Like all Functions, some Savior Intuitives do this worse than others, but they are all doing it to some degree.  "*My morning routine is efficient.  I get up, do all my morning stuff, and then I'm off to work\!  I get more done than the average race horse\!*" (WTF?)  The Savior Intuitive's life is a buildup of guesses, concepts, analogies but they don't have the facts to back it up.  "*This reminds me of*" is something they say alot.  In some way, shape, or form, the Savior Intuitive is obligated to give you the summary, overview, and understanding why.  You are on your own to beat the facts out of them. 

**(T) Thinking** (Ti, Te)  *Reasons, logic, works, hard, easy, get it done, block-banging, emotionally crashes later*.  Because their Feeling Function is a Demon, it will be hard for them to know the feelings of themselves and others.  The Thinker will just jump in and start working on what needs to be done and not notice the uncomfortable vibe in the room.  The Thinkers have strong feelings like everyone else, they are just obligated to get the work done first.  In their minds, the more work they figure out and get done, the more we all won't have negative feelings later.  "*I stayed up late and solved this really big problem at work.  Everyone will be so happy on Monday to see the work got done by me\!*"  (They then sleep in on Monday because they are emotionally exhausted and crashed, again).  In some way, shape, or form, the Thinker is obligated to figure it out, get it done, solve hard things, use logic, and find the reasons.  The more work they get done, the less bad feelings everyone will have later.   

**(F) Feeling** (Fi, Fe)  *Values, feelings, emotions, expressions, likes, hates, wants, desires, has a hard time making it actually work*.  Because their Thinking Function is a Demon, it will be hard for them to make work what they value.  For example, the Savior Feeler loves the idea of everyone having a nice meal together at 5pm, but they just can't make it work\!  They are not taking in account everyone else's work schedule, do we have enough chairs, how the new crockpot works, did you get the right groceries in time, etc.  You can want, love, and value something all day, but can you put in the hard work to fight and force it to happen?  The Thinker can, but they work on stuff that no one really values.  The Feeler knows what to value, but won't stay up all night to make it work.  In some way, shape, or form, the Feeler is going right after what is valuable, but then fumbles in actually putting in the hard work to make it work.  

**Functions**  

**Introverted Intuition** (Ni)  The Savior Ni is constantly shoving away every new fact that they can't connect back to their old, personal, patterns.  Driven by the fear of random physical chaos wrecking their way, the Ni is constantly stacking patterns onto their personal worldview.  When they talk, they will not even know they are just telling the same story again and not giving specific details to prove what they are saying.  You will be left with the void of asking for facts, details, and checking to see if they have seen this new information they somehow have ignored.  The biggest fear for the Ni, is that new facts collapse their outdated, abstract worldview they built inside their head.   

**Extroverted Sensing** (Se)  The Savior Se has a hard time staying on one topic, narrowing down, and seeing how much this experience is just like all the ones before and after it.  Driven by the fear and desire for Ni-control, the Se is constantly scanning and giving facts in the hopes that someday they will find control.  When they talk, they will not even know they are giving you too many facts, examples, and are taking extra time proving everything.  You will be left with the void of making some guesses, conclusions, and simplifying down what they are saying to a known category.  The biggest fear for the Se, is to find out one day that even though "it felt new" at the time, they were really just trapped running in the same circles.      

**Extroverted Intuition** (Ne)  The Savior Ne has a hard time staying on one topic, narrowing down, and giving specific details.  Driven by the fear being physically controlled, the Ne is constantly scanning for new concepts, understandings, and possibilities.  When they talk, they will not even know they are jumping from category to category, giving you an understanding and overview, but not specific details.  You will be left with the void of having to create physical control to protect yourself.  The biggest fear for the Ne is that some control-freak has their physical information locked up. 

**Introverted Sensing** (Si)  The Savior Si is constantly shoving away new concepts, understandings, and possibilities, so they can go over and refine their known, personal, facts.  Driven by the fear of "anything can happen", the Si is constantly controlling things physically inside their box.  When they talk, they will not know they are just giving you the same facts and details about their limited life.  You will be left with the void of asking why, trying to understand, and showing them new possibilities.  The biggest fear for the Si is that some random chaos that they could never predict just drops out of the sky and wrecks everything they've built.     
    
**Introverted Feeling** (Fi)  The Savior Fi is constantly shoving away all the work that the tribe needs help with, so they can do more of what they love.  Driven by the fear of not being useful for the tribe, the Fi is going all in on what they love, in hopes others will see their passion and then somehow do the work for them.  When they talk, they won't even know how much they are grunting out what they love and hate.  You will be left with the void of asking how it works, what are they going to get done.  The biggest fear for the Fi is that the tribe tells them what they love is stupid and they are going to have to do work they hate to actually be valuable. 

**Extroverted Thinking** (Te)  The Savior Te has a hard time narrowing in on all the things that need to be done, and picking the one that has a higher value for themselves.  Driven by the fear of not being self-loved, the Te will do all the tribe work so everyone has to love them.  When they talk, they don't even realize how much they are just reporting what other people are doing.  You will be left with the void of asking what is important to them and how they are feeling.  The biggest fear for the Te is that they get all the hard work done, and still no one loves them.    
    
**Introverted Thinking** (Ti)  The Savior Ti is constantly shoving away what everyone else loves and wants to do, so they can work on what they know is true for them.  Driven by the fear of not being emotionally connected to the tribe, the Ti will build something amazing so others have to love them.  When they talk, they won't even realize how emotionally uncomfortable everyone is because they are just going on about what they are working on.  The biggest fear for the Ti is that they spend years figuring out the truth, building something amazing, only to find the tribe doesn't even care.   

**Extroverted Feeling** (Fe)  The Savior Fe has a hard time narrowing down on what everyone loves, and going with what they know to be true (even though everyone will hate that).  Driven by the fear of not figuring out the truth for themselves, the Fe will constantly try to make everyone happy so they can help them with their personal work.  When they talk, they have no idea how much they are embarrassing themselves by desperately trying to make everyone happy.  The biggest fear for the Fe is to realize that all those years of caring about others have left them insecure and unable to make things work for themselves.      

\- [Needs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lDw-g7P56_gnOHjtbz9a0CQnZRK2VmuM-yYScn69rVQ/edit) \- Functions \- [Animals](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18ih6KacnX60LEE0u4uFYLHlmNuqmU131BnuU-VaFpqc/edit) \- [Sexuals](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kmbAvg5f3FFqygEGhwsFeUtOf8AEkgWp_Onlg6msiCo/edit) \- [Socials](https://docs.google.com/document/d/106Y1W3ui8IUMptspLebPQTfdBLXaF-wg359vUcR-kkQ/edit) \-