  
**Saviors / Demons**  

**Saviors**  *Obligated to, unaware addiction to, responsible for, downplays, sees as the solution, life pile, better than most people at*.  The more dominant a Function is, the more we use it and don't even realize it.  Your Saviors are "so real" that you don't even stop to see them. Every time you talk or write an email, there are many Functions you are NOT doing.  Your predictable life cycle is because you are addictively overdoing your Savior Functions, neglecting and blaming your Demons, and not seeing it.  Saviors are what you are actually doing all day, what you are responsible for, what you can't stop doing, even if you can't see them.  Saviors have nothing to do with what you "like" or "want".  Some people love to eat junk food all day and others hate that they have the same bad habit.  For example, the Savior Oe will tell you that they "love and want" control.  Yet, they are NOT doing it.  They are not the one, when compared to 100 other people, that is ACTUALLY controlling information and shoving away new.  Our Saviors are what we are doing way too much of which is what is causing all of our recurring life tidalwaves to repeat (the build up of the neglected Demons).  It is our theory that the mind will switch your S/D interpretations in order to protect your fake-self-story from collapsing.        
     
**Demons**  *Avoiding, blaming, desiring, showing off, someday will have, forces this void on others*.  The more dominant the Savior Function is, the more the other side of that coin is unconscious of and blamed.  We strongly see that people don't just kind of "not prefer" their inferior side, they actually demonize it.  This is the strongest driving, most predictable force in ones life.  We are able to objectively type people because we are just looking at what they are overdoing (Saviors) and what they are running from (Demons).  For example, the Savior Di person will see themselves as so caring and giving to the tribe (even though they obviously are not).  They then have no idea why everyone has packed up against them.  The Di then doubles down and goes all in on their way and getting away from the tribe.  It is our theory that Evolution wants us blind and delusional so we cause problems (by blaming and neglecting our Demons) and then run in and save everyone with our Saviors.  If humans were balanced and peaceful, we wouldn't fight (and therefore quickly die off).  There has to be a "bad guy" in life in order for us to be motivated to move.  This is why, as you get older, no matter where you go, those same recurring tidalwaves are still stalking you. 

**Human Needs**  

**Observer** (IxxJ, ExxP)  *Things, pathways, facts, understandings, missing info, news, secrets, conspiracies, anxiety*.  Because their Sensing and Intuition Functions are on the poles, they are always stuck trying to process control, chaos, missing facts and/or the understanding.  Even though Observers can be going through more pain and people-problems than their Decider friends, they can still Double Decide.  Meaning, all Observers can easily see and understand the other person's point of view.  "*Yeah, I know they were really mean, but I would be too if I was in their position... Anyway, I got stacks of paperwork from the school and I can't figure any of it out.  It gave me way too much anxiety so I just threw it away.*"  In some way shape or form, the Observer's life tidalwave is from the massive build up of missing information about things, not people.  

**Decider** (IxxP, ExxJ)  *People, judgment, fairness, blame, my way, your way, doing, drama, depression*.  Because their Feeling and Thinking Functions are on the poles, they are always stuck trying to process people.  Fairness, judgment, mean to me, embarrassment, nervous, etc.  Even though Deciders can cause more frustrating control/chaos than their Observer friends, they are unable to feel permanently stuck by it.  Meaning, the Decider also gets frustrated at the phone update, printer, car repairs, and vacuum cleaner cord like everyone else.  But they don't make this their biggest drama in their lives.  The Deciders have a hard time easily seeing what others are going through and how they are affecting them.  "*Yes, it really sucks that you crashed the car, we'll get it fixed... Anyway, why did you go driving without me?  Do you hate me?  Do you like them more than me?  I would never do this to you\!  Why are you so unfair for no reason?*"  In some way, shape, or form, the Decider's life tidalwave is building up because of lack of balance and flow between people, not things.       

**(Di) Introverted Decider** (Fi, Ti)  *Has a way, allowed, above others, knows what they want, tribe is not good enough for their standards*.  Because their De Function is a Demon, they are causing a void of build up between themselves and the tribe.  The Di's have a way and "are allowed" to go straight to their Di without checking with everyone else first like the De's have to.  When listening to a Di, they are going to always be talking mostly about what they want and will barely ever mention or bring in others to their story.  When the Di does mention others, it is always looking down on them.  "*I totally want this, someday I'm gonna do that, I've always wanted to... Anyway, dumb Johnny says I'll never do it.  What does he know, he's an idiot*."  In some way, shape, or form, by the end of the year, the Di has built up a void between themselves and the tribe. 

**(De) Extroverted Decider** (Fe, Te)  *Has a way but is not allowed, below others, pulling people in, one guy is the narcissist, tribe is better than them*.  Because their Di Function is a Demon, they are obligated to first ask permission, pole the tribe, and make sure it's ok with everyone else first, before they are "allowed" to do their Di.  In the end, everyone is Di, it's just that the Savior De's add in this extra step before doing their Di in the end anyway.  When listening to a De story, they are constantly referencing and bringing in others.  The positives to this is the De is not coming across as selfish or alone in their views.  But on the flip side, the De then blames everyone else when things go wrong.  "*Well what do you want?  What do you think I should do?  Well Johnny said I should do this, he would know better than little old me*."  In some way, shape, or form, by the end of the year, the De has built up a void in their inner world and has "not allowed" themselves to do what they really want. 

**(Oi) Introverted Observer** (Ni, Si)  *Has a way, narrows down, concludes, goes over the same thing, shoves away new, unknowingly constricts and therefore forces chaos*.  Because their Oe Function is a Demon, they are shoving away needed new information.  When listening to an Oi's story they will always be talking in chapters, they have a way, are narrowing down, and concluding.  Even if they are talking in a very chaotic way, look for their responsibility to get back on track and conclude.  For the Oi, there is a great peace in eliminating irrelevant information and concluding in every conversation.  "*And then we did this, and then that happened, and then this random thing... Anyway, here is how it ended and this is what I'm going to put in place to make sure all that never happens again*."  In some way, shape, or form, by the end of the year, the Oi has built up a tidalwave of neglected new information that crashes in and washes away their outdated routines.   

**(Oe) Extroverted Observer** (Ne, Se)  *Excited for new options, distracted easily, tangents, channel-changing, exploring, unknowingly forces the outside world to control them*.  Because their Oi Function is a Demon (and everyone is Oi deep down) they will always say that they want control, but not see that they aren't doing it.  The Savior Oe Function is obligated to look at every single piece of new information that comes in.  Where the Oi is saying "No" 10x a day, the Oe is saying "Yes" to everything.  Even if they are a very Introverted Oe person, they will still have a crack-addiction to looking at new, and the trigger feelings tied to narrowing down and being controlled by outside forces.  "*And then we did this, and then that happened, and then this random thing... Anyway, onto this other random thing over here.  Oh, did I tell you about Johnny?  You got to hear this story..."*  In some way, shape, or form, by the end of the year, the Oe has a giant pile of chaos that others are forced to come in and narrow down.  

\- Needs \- [Functions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkCiCVM2cG5ErqB7pzYdDtoR4IuLS5z-ZTBVKKmoTHY/edit) \- [Animals](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18ih6KacnX60LEE0u4uFYLHlmNuqmU131BnuU-VaFpqc/edit) \- [Sexuals](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kmbAvg5f3FFqygEGhwsFeUtOf8AEkgWp_Onlg6msiCo/edit) \- [Socials](https://docs.google.com/document/d/106Y1W3ui8IUMptspLebPQTfdBLXaF-wg359vUcR-kkQ/edit) \-