  
**Social Types**  

The 4 **Social Types** use the exact same "math" as the 4 Sexual Types.  Just as the Sexual energy of "Masculine and Feminine" is something that humans have known of for thousands of years, so is this idea of Social Types.  There is the \#1 who is born with a drive to be at the top.  The \#2s are the executives who work in teams.  The \#3s are the specialists and tradesmen who are the best at their own particular craft.  The \#4s tend to move around from job to job because they are putting their friends and family first.  There are pros and cons to all types, but success and happiness are different for each type.  Like the Sexuals and the Human Needs, we all have the four following traits (everyone has everything).  The question is, which order do you have these traits in?  Which are your Savior traits and which two are the ones you neglect?  Notice how Friends/Ego are on a coin and Specialize/Responsibility are on a coin.

| 4 Friends Specialize  Responsibility Flexing  | 3 Specialize Flexing  Friends Responsibility  | 2 Responsibility Friends  Flexing Specialize  | 1 Flexing Responsibility  Specialize Friends  |
| ----- | :---: | :---: | ----- |

|   Flexing:  Ego, be the best, at the top, identity goals, legendary Responsibility:  Ownership, make it happen, no excuses, results Specialize:  Focus in on the task, productive in this one area Friends:  Learn from others, move for others, care for others |   Specialize   Friends 4 Friends/Specialize 3 Specialize/Flexing Flexing  2 Responsibility/Friends 1 Flexing/Responsibility   Responsibility     |
| :---- | ----- |

**Social Type \#1**  (Ego/Responsibility)  The dominant drive for the \#1 is to be at the top, to be the best in their chosen field.  No matter what the 512 type, the \#1s are very "IxxP-Sleep" like.  They want things their way even though it will cost them Friendships.  With Ego (or Flex) at the top they have a constant desire to put their name on something and crush others.  They naturally have a very competitive drive that is displayed through their 512 type.  For example, if they are more Extroverted you will see the "flexing" of cars, cash, clothes, etc.  If they are more Introverted, it will be done in a more of a subtle "*Mine is better than yours*" kind of way, etc.  Regardless of the 512 type, the \#1s have their biggest challenge in balancing friendships.  Because the age old saying of, "*It's lonely at the top*" is true, the \#1s do have the hardest time keeping friendships.      
    
**Social Type \#2**  (Responsibility/Friends)  The dominant drive for the \#2 is to make sure everything under their roof is taken care of.  No matter what the 512 type, the \#2s are very "ExxP-Oe" like.  They are constantly taking on their job and the job of everyone else's.  They are the manager at work who is not only doing their task, but also running around and helping and training everyone else at their tasks too.  They have "their heads on a swivel" and have the hardest time narrowing in a Specializing on just one skill that they tie their Ego to.  The age old saying of, "*Jack of all trades and master of none*" applies well to the \#2.  They work well under a \#1 that is providing the Ego, goal, and direction of the team.  The \#2s also need the \#3s because Specializing is the hardest thing for the \#2s.  In their minds, they can't focus on just this one job, because they are obligated to the 50 other departments that are burning down.   

**Social Type \#3**  (Specialize/Ego)  The dominant drive for the \#3 is to Specialize and master one field in life.  No matter what the 512 type, the \#3s are very "IxxJ-Blast" like.  The \#2s and \#3s work in the exact opposite of each other.  The thinking of the \#3 is, "*How would I get good at anything if I'm not putting all of my time into it?*"  Where the \#2s prefer more of an "entrepreneur-like" environment, the \#3s prefer more of a structured, secure environment.  Job security and clearly defined roles are important to the \#3s.  The \#3s are also Ego driven like the \#1s so they are very competitive at what they do.  Flexing and showing off their accomplishments, badges, and gold stars is something they do.  Being Responsible for all the departments outside their "pay-grade" is something that \#3s won't do.  In their minds, everyone is coming together to make a collective trade.  "*I will do my job and be the best at it, and you do your job and leave me alone*."      

**Social Type \#4**  (Friends/Specialize)  The dominant drive for the \#4 is to connect with others and take care of their Friends.  No matter what the 512 type, the \#4s are very "ExxJ-Play" like.  They will drop anything to help a buddy in need.  The \#1s and \#4s are exact opposites of each other.  Where the \#1 is driven by Ego (and therefore loses Friends) the \#4 is driven by Friends and therefore doesn't have a big Ego.  Meaning, the \#4s don't walk around saying:  "*I'm going to be the best at this, you'll see\!  I'll crush all of you\!*"  The \#1s have a bit of "delusion" that they are going to be the best and then have friends someday.  Where the \#4s just go straight to having Friends now.  In the minds of the \#4s they think, "*Why be miserable and lonely your whole life?  Why not just enjoy the people in your life now?*"  The \#4s are very much like the \#2s in the sense that they tend to move from job to job seeking for a better opportunity (with better Friends).  The \#4s will Specialize like the \#3s and get very good at their chosen skill.  Because the \#4s aren't tied to Ego or Responsibility, they don't have alot of motivation to master a job they hate.  The \#4s would rather go check on their Friends, which then forces the bosses to control them more.  

\- [Needs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lDw-g7P56_gnOHjtbz9a0CQnZRK2VmuM-yYScn69rVQ/edit) \- [Functions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkCiCVM2cG5ErqB7pzYdDtoR4IuLS5z-ZTBVKKmoTHY/edit) \- [Animals](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18ih6KacnX60LEE0u4uFYLHlmNuqmU131BnuU-VaFpqc/edit) \- [Sexuals](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kmbAvg5f3FFqygEGhwsFeUtOf8AEkgWp_Onlg6msiCo/edit) \- Socials \- 