Taker

Someone who takes more than they give. The Child or the Beta and is
lower on the Social Hierarchy. A Taker puts stress on those around them,
are not self-conscious, and blame others. They are entitled, needy,
scared, insecure, and can't take care of themselves. Takers are
Subjective, live in a constant Panic State, and won't use Standards or
the Scientific Method, or hold themselves accountable. Rather than
building up for themselves, a Taker is looking to tear down others and
horrid up for themselves. No matter how much they take, they never feelike they have enough. See Giver.

Te
Stands for Extroverted Thinking.

Technophobia
A fear or intense dislike of technology or complex devices such as
computers. This can express itself such as a fear of AI taking over and
destroying the world, or the simple hatred of having to update your
computer. Symptoms can include extreme irritability, chest pain,
lightheadedness, rapid heart beat, upset stomach, sweating, and
trembling. This would be an example of an Observer Freakout where the
nervous system is thrown into the Fight or Flight state. Dave has a
pretty hard case of this.

TED Talks
There are many amazing things to learn from any given TED Talk, but one
of the best lessons we've found is standing back and looking at what's
happening at scale. After watching hundreds of these over the years you
can start to see a common pattern emerge. A person has some amazing
discovery in life, they then get it to work for them to some degree on
themselves on a small scale. They then make the leap that if everyone
else just did what they did, then we could all Change the World. The
joke is, one after another, thousands of people stand on stage and all
say, "If you all just listened to me and my one thing, then we could
change the world!" Next! Like the Termites all trying to Run to the Top
of the Mountain, we all have a program inside us that tells us that our
one discovery is what the world needs to get onboard with.

Telling People What They Want
If you have kids or are in sales, you've watched yourself get beaten
down to just lying to people to avoid drama. It is really true that
"reality" is what a person believes in their worldview (which of
course is extremely limited). The conflict happens when there is some
objective truth that has to be done, but it doesn't fit in that
person's worldview. You are now caught in a dilemma; Either tell this
person the truth and get set back with their predictable tantrum. Or
just tell them what they want to hear so you can move around them. You
see alot of people in their 20s "discover the truth!" and try to tell
everyone. That of course doesn't go over well and by the time they are
50 they have learned to say less and talk in cryptic language. See OPS
Split.

Temperament
There are four temperaments in the OP system and they are based around
the Human Needs of Di, Oi, Oe, De. See Fears.
The IxxP has Di as a first Function (Fi or Ti).
The IxxJ Oi as a first Function (Ni or Si).
The ExxP has Oe as a first Function (Ne or Se).
The ExxJ has De as a first Function (Fe or Te)

Termites
From studying Evolutionary Psychology and figuring out how many
similarities humans have in common with chimps, dogs, ants, bees, and
termites. It's easier to see the commonalities between humans and
chimps (this is how we discovered the Animals). But studying lower life
forms like ants, bees, and termites show us simpler, more foundational
programs. With termites for example, there are a handful of different
kinds in each swarm. There are the workers, the ones with big chompers,
the flying ones, etc. All the termites "Follow their Passion" and go
out to find the woodpile. The flying ones go this way, the small ground
ones go that way, etc. Each type of termites uses their speciality
(Saviors) to go find the woodpile. Out of a million termites, one of
them is going to randomly find the promised-land of the new wood pile.
Same with humans, we all have our set of Saviors where we are going to
Run to the Top of the Mountain with our Saviors and then tell everyone
about it on a TED Talk.

Tertiary Function
An outdated term referring to the Third Function in the Grant Function
Stack.

Tester
Kinesthetic and Tester are on a coin with each other. This means
everyone has both modalities but one is more dominant than the other.
Those with Feminine Sensory have Tester as their first (FF) or second
(FM) modality. The Masculine Kinesthetic does moving and shoving, where
the Tester feels moved. Testers are sensitive to smells, air temperature
changes, vibration, and where the coziest spot on the couch is. They
tend to be more "bendy" compared to the more "brutish" Kinesthetics.
See Sexuals for how this connects to the Functions.

Tests, Personality
See Personality Tests.

Thinker
Anyone who is a Savior Thinker, Ti or Te.

Thinking (T)
One of the four Letters (Feeling, Sensing, Thinking, Intuition).
Thinking and Feeling are opposite of each other and are a Deciding
Coin.
Thinking is defined by the cognitive process of figuring something out
in order to make it work. Works, reasons, doing, block-banging,
unprocessed emotions, prefers a hard job; construction, engineering,
science, tech, etc.

Think It's Real
Referring to the absolute gullibility and go-along-ness of the average
person. Most people stay in an extreme state of unconsciousness and
irresponsibility and therefore outsource their responsibility to others.
They are easily scared by the Covid, the news, the government, politics,
religion, conspiracies, facebook drama, etc. Of course there are always
serious issues going on that need to be addressed. But someone who
"Thinks it's real" is getting pulled in hook, line, and sinker on the
latest thing to freak out about. They are the IxxJ that is always crying
about chaos. They are the ExxJ that is always screaming that everyone is
mean to them. They are the IxxP that keeps bragging about how awesome
they are. They are Drama Amplifiers, and always get triggered by the
Latest and Loudest.

Third Function
The third Function is in reference to the four Functions in the Grant
Stack. For example, an INFP has Si as their third Function. A Standard
INFP has their first and second Function as Saviors (Fi/Ne). A Jumper
INFP has their first and third Functions as Saviors (Fi/Si). For
Standard types, the third Function is a Demon, and for Jumpers the third
Function is a Savior. The third Function is also in balance with the
second Function an approximate ratio of 60/40. Even with the third
Function is a Demon, it does not go into dramatic swings like the fourth
Function. When the third Function is a Demon, it is often referred to as
the Hobby Function.

This or That Fallacy
Also called the Black or White Fallacy, False Dilemma Fallacy, and
Loaded Questions. Offering only two false choices to a multidimensional
problem. For example, "Are you supportive of lockdowns, or do you want
everyone to die of Covid?" "Are you for Donald Trump or are you for
destroying the country?" "Did you get my personality type right, or is
your whole system not scientific?" Because most people are not using
the Scientific Method in their lives, they are stuck in the default of
Grunt Brain, Panic State, and Tribalism logic. They have not built up
the habits or experience to process multidimensional problems so
therefore all they have to work with is the ancient reactions of binary
choices. Remember when you are dealing with people using this or that
thinking, that it's not about whatever topic they are upset about.
Rather, they have a Fixed Mindset Child Identity that can't process
complex problems and therefore they are doing this everywhere in their
lives. So it's not personal to you and this one topic this one time.

Ti
Stands for Introverted Thinking.

Tidal Wave
The build up of consequences from over doing Saviors and neglecting
Demons (same concept at Karma). There are a few people in your life that
you know are headed for a catastrophe. There is something in reality
that they should be doing, that they refuse to do. We are all doing this
with our blindspots which is why there are people in your life that know
exactly what is coming your way in the next year and you can't see it.
Tidalwaves are simple cause and effect. Keep neglecting your Demons and
they build up and snap back, whether you can see it or not.

Tidal Wave (Positive)
The build up of consequences from overdoing the right thing. Just like
negative tidalwaves, you don't get the results of your actions right
away. It takes time, often many years, before the Universe brings you
back a return on your positive investments. Positive tidalwaves are a
reminder of how life is a fair set of math equations.

Time, Intensity, Frequency
This is a technique to measure when someone is in a Demon state and/or
are moving outside the social norm. For example, when you are at a
social event and one of your friends is "ranting" about something. For
the first 30 seconds, everyone is fine, this person is just getting out
some frustration. This is actually relieving because we all feel that
way, and it may even be a bit funny. Then, as the minutes roll on,
everyone is feeling awkward as the person won't stop. As the time rolls
on, the person continues to increase their intensity of their
complaining rant. What is the final straw for everyone else, is when
they see that this person does this frequently, meaning many times per
week. It's ok to be in a bad state, complain, blame, or rant, everyone
does. But for those that do this for too long, too often, and too
intense will be outcast from the tribe.

Time Blocks
This is a productivity technique that we use that is a level above the 3
Wheelbarrows technique. Rather than having a list of things to do each
day (which is great for starting out) you move onto having set times for
each department. So for example, 7-8am is working out and personal time,
8-10am is deep business work, 10am-4pm is team business work, 4-6pm is
rest and personal time, 6-8pm is administrative work, 8-10pm is family
time, etc. Unlike the 3 Wheelbarrows where you get the satisfaction of
marking little things "off the list", with Time Blocks, you are never
done. This is the "daily grind" all successful people talk about.

Tim Ferriss
We typed Tim as a MM-Ni/Te-BS/C(P). Tim wrote the revolutionary book the
4 Hour Work Week way back in 2007. He took the systematizing and scaling
that E-Myth teaches to a whole new level. Tim is not saying to just work
4 hours a week, rather his Ni-concept is you can make things 10x more
efficient than you think. What is taking 40 hours a week, really can get
that down to 4 hours or less. Every week we are still using the concepts
from E-Myth and Tim and find new ways to streamline our work and
systems. Tim has gone on to do many other things in his life as he's
getting older, which is the point. Get your lower end systems super
optimized so you really can move on in life and do bigger things.

TomTom, (Tom Bilyeu)
We typed Tom as a MF-Ti/Se-CP/B(S). Tom is one of our most favorite
people in the world and we call him "TomTom" just because we love him.
Tom's early interviews where our go-to when we first started typing
people off of YouTube in the early years (2014-2016). Nobody would
research their guest like Tom and also have life insights to insert into
the discussion. Over the years, in our opinion, Tom has become the best
interviewer in the world by far. We've learned and owe alot to Tom, his
wife, his team, and all the work they've done. Tom is an IxxP who is
spending his time getting to know and serving the tribe. It takes him
forever to narrow down, but he's doing it. Tom is an inspiration that
you can start small, work your ass off, and continue to grow and build
each year.

Tony Robbins
Tony is a MM-Te/Se-PB/C(S), which is number 512 out of 512 types in our
system. This means that his type is the most Masculine and most
Extroverted. Tony got into NLP in the 1980s and much of his work has
helped us in asking better questions. Tony is often seen as one of the
most influential forces in modern personal development. We have a saying
that goes, "All roads lead back to Tony Robbins''. Much of what we
discovered in life and personality research is something that Tony has
been teaching for decades. For example, the idea that you must update
your very Identity if you want real change is what we've found to be
true and is a pillar of his work. The four Human Needs that are the core
of the OP system is from Tony Robbins. What sets Tony apart from most
others in the industry, is he actually puts his psychological theories
to the test. He is famous for getting unmatched results in the real
world.

Touching the Rim
Doing something amazing once, but not able to do it at scale. You might
be able to jump really high one time and touch the rim of a basketball
hoop, but this does not mean you can consistently slam dunk all the
time. People mistake doing one thing one time really well in an ideal
state, with what they can do consistently for the next 30 years, even on
bad days. The world judges you by your consistent baseline, not how
awesome you were that one time.

Tourette's Syndrome
We see Tourette's clustering around those who have Masculine Feeling as
a fourth Function. From what we see, building a habit of processing and
getting out the suppressed emotions does help.

Townsfolk
A term referring to people that have not gone through the painful,
transformative process of the Hero's Journey. Jordan Peterson refers to
this group as the average person who is at the lower and middle of the
social hierarchy. Jesus referred to this group as "sheep". Townsfolk
people chose to stay in the light and grab for easy times and no pain
now. This of course brings them more pain later, but they choose to not
look at the inevitable tidalwave. Townsfolk choose unconsciousness by
constantly distracting themselves with the latest and loudest
entertainment and/or drama. Townsfolk can be identified by never having
objective goals, which would force self awareness, accountability, and
growth and therefore put them on the path to hell and eventually the
other side of the Hero's Journey. Townsfolk can also be identified by
the fact that they must always have people above them telling them what
to do. Because they choose to stay unconscious and irresponsible for
much of their Demons, others who are higher up the Social Hierarchy step
in and play that role for them.

Toxic People
Someone whose identity is a Child and Fixed Mindset. Always looking for,
finding, or creating negative in every situation. Then followed by
complaining, blaming, and Hijacking. When they are not attacking others
they have a steady wave of anxiety and depression filling their bodies.
It's never about the "thing" (whatever they are raging about at this
time) but rather an identity that has to erupt on a time schedule. Track
the time in between outbursts, don't try and track the specifics of
whatever it is they are complaining about this time. Toxic people have
not built habits or an identity for themselves so they only know how to
tear others down in order to try and feel better about themselves.
Robert Greene says don't help the drowning because they will only
infect you too. If you have no authority or leverage over the toxic
person, the only way to possibly help them is to throw them Back in the
Cooker.

Training
A daily Discipline of pressure on self is something we see all the
Alpha's doing that have made it through the transformation of the
Hero's Journey. The Child is living under the default Pain Equation to
avoid pain now, which brings more pain later (that they are unconscious
of). The Adult knows the truth, if they don't put pressure/pain on
themselves now, they will get a greater pain later. Take David Goggins
and Jocko Willink as a couple of extreme examples. As Sleep-last, De,
ExxPs, those guys have it harder than most people. Their default
programs are to do random shit and blame others to the extreme. Yet,
every day, they know, preach, and do the truth, and that is putting the
pressure back on them. This comes in the form of consciousness training.
Militaries, schools, and businesses all know that if you want someone to
grow, you have to train, every day. If you don't have conscious,
objective, measurable times and exercises in your life where you are
training, you are not training.

Trance
A term often used in hypnosis and NLP circles that refers to a state at
which a person is not fully awake. For example, when you are driving a
long distance and you completely miss your exit and don't even realize
it until some time later. The brain was awake enough to drive the car,
but was also asleep to some degree to miss the exit. Instead of being
fully awake, clear minded, and present, the brain was in some kind of
mild dream state. We see that most people, most of the time, are in a
mild trance state. Running off of just default Saviors on the outside,
while trying to process their Demons unconsciously in the background.
Therefore, they are missing so many social cues and opportunities and
are completely oblivious to it.

Trash
Referring to Ownership and Responsibility. When kids come to work here,
they all run for the top and try to save us with their Saviors. The NT
guy is already building an APP, the NF person wants us on the phone all
day crying with others, the ST guy has 50 things he wants to prove to us
that we are doing wrong, and the SF guy wants us to do more and better
videos to increase sales. Like Lemmings off a cliff, no one slows down
and actually builds from the bottom up, BUDS Class 234 style. Anyway,
the game always goes like this, "Ok hot-shot, since you are so good and
if we just listened to you, we'd all be making millions, why don't you
help us on the lower stuff first? It should be easy for you, could you
just own the trash for the team?"

And the joke is, none of them can do it, and here's why: To have full
Ownership over the trash you'd have to follow the principles of
ownership. You can never miss a trash can and then force someone else to
stop what they are doing and now go do your job. No one minds helping
out, but when you are "forgetting" shit left and right, it forces
others to stop what they are doing and save the day, or else there are
bigger problems (now there are ants, bad smells, etc). Three weeks go by
and every hot-shot is already forgetting to get the downstairs trash,
have the cans out Wednesday night, not block the driveway, take them in
right away so the neighbors aren't staring at them for 2 days, clean
them out, dry them out, put a 90 gallon trash bag in the big one, order
more bags, etc, etc, etc.

So everyone can "DO" the trash, but only a million dollar person can
OWN the trash. The funniest part is, as soon as you give the kid a
second task, it's like a green light in their little brains to DROP the
trash! "Well, I can't deal with the trash, because I'm editing now."
So, one of the games we play is we will toss out the phrase, "Own the
trash" and see how people react. Most people have the attitude of
that's dumb, they are above that, it's easy, have someone else do it,
etc. And the REAL owners tremble in fear because they know just how damn
hard it is to actually own anything, especially with so many moving
parts like the fucking trash.

Trauma Cycle
We are seeing exactly what mainstream psychology is seeing when it comes
to trauma cycles. We see that most people have some form of unhealed
childhood trauma, some far worse than others. These deep wounds are
Triggered by some event. The unresolved wounds come exploding out
through some kind of reaction and blame. Each person will settle on
their particular way of getting triggered. After the blowup, comes the
crashing where they fall into coping. Their minds settled years ago that
this issue is "unsolvable" and the world is "unfair and
unpredictable" so they just use unconsciousness to wash away the
chemicals (Fixed Mindset). Then they get back to baseline and the clock
is set for the next triggering. What we have found is, track the time
between trauma cycles, don't track the "Sensor thing". There is deep,
unconscious, unresolved, negative energy down there and the pressure
just builds up and it comes out in a very consistent cycle.

Triangulate
Usually refers to looking at something from more than one angle. For
example, when typing, if we think we see a person is lead Se, will then
also triangulate or crosscheck and see if they have Demon Ni. Looking
for Double Deciding is another way to triangulate. Ultimately, checking
to see if our partner independently got the same type is another layer
of triangulation.

Tribalism
Humans have evolved to bond with those of the same tribe. Those that are
like us are the "good guys" and those that are different are the "bad
guys". This mechanism served us well for millions of years as another
shortcut program that kept most people safe, most of the time. Fear
those that look different than you, and move towards those that do look
like you. So fast humans want to pack up and fight against the rival
sports team, the vaccinated against the unvaccinated, or the left vs the
right, etc. We see this behavior in the personality community in the
Facebook Groups. Rather than using this info for self growth, most
people can't stop their default programs from taking over and using it
to argue over which type is better. Racism, tribalism, and inequality is
deep wired into the human species. Unfortunately, this is not something
that is going to go away in our lifetime. So we learned to ask, "Where
is this happening in my life?" rather than wishing it wasn't there.

Tribe
Usually referring to De, see Extroverted Decider. Can also mean the
consensus of what most people do or believe.

Tribe above Self
Anyone who is Savior De (Te or Fe).

Trifuckta
When, random, bad things happen all at once that you couldn't have
planned for. For example, you have an important meeting at 10:00am that
you are fully prepared for. Ten minutes before you start, there are
massive technical difficulties. As you scramble to work through them,
your coworker comes in and spills their coffee. As you go to start
cleaning that up, your spouse calls and tells you the dog ran away. You
got problems coming in at multiple angles and no matter what you do,
you're fucked.

Triggered
An extreme negative reaction from a relatively small action. There is a
trauma or genetic fear sitting loaded below the surface waiting to
explode. Given enough time and chances, something comes along and
randomly triggers the outburst of negative energy. For example,
scratching fingernails on a chalkboard triggers much of the population.
This is an example of a genetic fear that many people have and some
don't. We see the default fears of our Saviors and Demons working in
exactly the same way. For example, the ExxP is born with loaded negative
energy towards control. All they need is enough time and random events
to trigger that off. Maybe it's this time they are asked to be on time,
and maybe it's not. It's hard to predict exactly what and when a
person will be triggered, but you can predict what it will be about and
the rough time gap between triggered events.

True Believers
Someone who not only knows, understands, and believes in the teaching of
OPS but also puts in the self growth work with Objective Results.
Someone who is using the Scientific Method to keep themselves
accountable in life. Someone who is making measurable progress in life
every 3 months.

True Consume
A funny phrase we use to make fun of the Double Activated Consumers
(Blast lasters) when they make fun of the Double Activated Blasters
(Consume lasters). Both types have an imbalance of Consuming and accuse
the other of not doing it right. For example, "I Consumed all the
research on vaccines and found that they are somewhat unsafe and might
give you late-stage-cerebral-palsy." "Oh yeah, well I did the TRUE
CONSUME and found that the vaccines are actually being used for
population control."

Trust
Relationships are built on trust, as the saying goes. The single most
important trait you can build for yourself and others. Can you trust
yourself to do what you say you are going to do? Can other people trust
you in hard times? Who can you trust when things are bad to do what they
say they are going to do? Trust can not be built overnight. Trust is
built a thin layer at a time as you go through hard times and see the
person stand strong. The reverse is also true. You can also "trust"
99-100% of your friends and family will simply quit and leave you for
dead once they have one ounce of pain on their Demons. Everyone only
checks their intentions and how they feel right now. No one is actually
looking at their trust-record over the last 3 months. For example, you
will see people that cause absolute hell to themselves and those around
them for the last year. They will then come to you and ask to be your
friend and if they can work with you. If you fall for this, they will
cause hell, blame you for it, and make you their Bad Guy just like they
did the last 10 people.

Tug of War
Out of a small group of people, there will always be one person that
sees that they can bully everyone else and get their way. Others will
make small attempts to resist them, but the dominant person will just
amplify the aggression until they make it too socially uncomfortable to
resist them. Because fitting in is the stronger force, people will just
roll their eyes and go along. See Groupthink.

Type, 4 (Temperament)
Usually referring to an IxxP, ExxJ, IxxJ, ExxP. Categorized by the first
Human Need (Di, Oi, Oe, De)
Di (IxxP, Everyone with Fi or Ti as a first Function)
Oi (IxxJ, Everyone with Ni or Si as a first Function)
Oe (ExxP, Everyone with Ne or Se as a first Function)
De (ExxJ, Everyone with Fe or Te as a first Function)

Type, 8 (Carl Jung)
First Function, categorized by the first Function
Ni Si Ne Se
Fi Ti Fe Te

Type, 16 (Myers Briggs)
Standard Myers Briggs Types, categorized by the MBTI system from the
1960s. They assumed that everyone was dominant only in their first and
second Function. They were unaware of the 32 types, the Jumpers who are
dominant in their first and third Function. Below are the 16 types with
their 4 Myers Briggs Letters and the Grant Function Stack order in
parentheses.
INFP (Fi/Ne/Si/Te) ISFP (Fi/Se/Ni/Te) ENFJ (Fe/Ni/Se/Ti) ESFJ
(Fe/Si/Ne/Ti)
INTP (Ti/Ne/Si/Fe) ISTP (Ti/Se/Ni/Fe) ENTJ (Te/Ni/Se/Ti) ESTJ
(Te/Si/Ne/Fi)
INFJ (Ni/Fe/Ti/Se) INTJ (Ni/Te/Fi/Se) ENFP (Ne/Fi/Te/Si) ENTP
(Ne/Ti/Fe/Si)
ISFJ (Si/Fe/Ti/Ne) INFJ (Ni/Fe/Ti/Se) ESFP (Se/Fi/Te/Ni) ESTP
(Se/Ti/Fe/Ni)

Type, 32 (Jumpers)
Also known as Jumpers. Below are the 32 types based on their two Savior
Functions and their Myers Briggs type in parentheses. Note that the
Myers Briggs types always assume that people are dominant in one
Introverted Function and one Extroverted Function. The 32 types
recognize that some people are dominant in their two Introverted
Functions or two Extroverted Functions. Another way to put is, the Myers
Briggs 16 types assumed everyone was either Savior Consume or Blast. The
32 Jumper types recognize that about half the population are either
Savior Sleep or Play.
Fi/Si, Fi/Ne (INFP) Fi/Ni, Fi/Se (ISFP) Fe/Ni, Fe/Se (ENFJ) Fe/Si, Fe/Ne
(ESFJ)
Ti/Si, Ti/Ne (INTP) Ti/Ni, Ti/Se (ISTP) Te/Ni, Te/Se (ENTJ) Te/Si, Te/Ne
(ESTJ)
Ni/Ti, Ni/Fe (INFJ) Ni/Fi, Ni/Te (INTJ) Ne/Fi, Ne/Te (ENFP) Ne/Ti, Ne/Fe
(ENTP)
Si/Ti, Si/Fe (ISFJ) Ni/Ti, Ni/Fe (INFJ) Se/Fi, Se/Te (ESFP) Se/Ti, Se/Fe
(ESTP)

Type, 128 (Excluding Sexuals)
Excluding Sexuals, categorized by the Savior Functions (32 Types) plus
the 4 Animals (Sleep, Consume, Blast, Play). We use the 128 types for
typing, see the Elimination Tool.

Type, 512 (Exact)
Exact, the OPS personality code could best be described as 128 types x 4
sexual versions. There is a FF, FM, MF, MM version (plus the Modalities
connected to the sexual pairs) of each of the 128 types.

Type-A-Tool
This tool was made by Dave and we use it in conjunction with the
Elimination Tool to type clients. The Type-A-Tool (also called the
Type-A-Fool) was first constructed in late 2021 and used as an
interactive training tool for our in-house editor to learn typing.
Everyday for several months, we would sit down and type clients and hone
in the definitions and words. For example, when a client is a Decider,
they have a low-level of nervousness compared to the Observers (who have
a low-level of anxiety). So each word that is in the descriptions has
been changed over a dozen times as we dial in what words we are actually
using in reality to describe the coins in real life. What we found is,
the words have to be super simple, binary, and have an underlying tone
of darkness to them. For example, with Di and De, words like "confident
or helpful were not working. Words like "selfish ass or desperate
idiot" do actually work. Anyways, this tool is not for the public who
wants everything Ding-Da-Ding. The Type-A-Tool is what works for us so
we can get 90% consistency with each other while being in separate
rooms.

Typecast
When the tribe can only see you as the character you use to play. For
actors, if they are too powerful of a character, too young, to an
audience who is also young, they can be type casted. A powerful
emotional state when we are young, is hard to let go of. Just like a
negative trauma from childhood is hard to let go of, so is a powerful
positive experience. What happens with our friends and family is they
can only remember you from the weird kid you where a long time ago. You
somehow impressed such a heightened emotional state on them that they
can't let it go. This is why as you get older and start to improve
yourself, they still see you as that old kid. For them it feels like a
branding violation. Just as you would be freaked out if McDonalds
stopped selling hamburgers and only started selling vegan salads. Jesus
understood this issue and talked about how a prophet is not respected in
their hometown. In the Hero's Journey this is why the person has to
leave their hometown and go start over again somewhere else (Mark 6:4).
This concept works both ways too. If you show up to a new friend group
in a super high positive state, everyone for the rest of their lives
only see you as this person.

Type-Talk
When a person is just giving their subjective Self-Report in a typing
video and labeling everything they are saying. For example, "And then
I'm so awesome at Consume because I obviously have it double activated.
And then my Masculine-Ti-Trickster Function is so modified because I'm
at the alpha stage of life. Anyways, I'm just rambling because of my
over-active Ne. I'm the biggest Introvert ever because one summer I
went to 3 parties in a row and I just sat in the corner and didn't talk
to anyone!" We get these delusional idiots every month, which is why
our Disclaimer Policies are so intense.

Type Twins
Often used to refer to two people who are the exact same 512 type.
People of the same or similar type often look alike, also known as
doppelgangers. Not everyone of the same type looks the same, but the
consistent pattern is undeniable and is one of the strongest unique
traits of OPS. See Genetic Factors.

Typing Procedure
Below is a basic description of the typing procedure Dave uses for
typing, particularly video typing. This process was started years ago
and is continually refined over time. Currently (2022) we have seen over
20 people who have been able to type at least 10 people and get results
at or above the 60% consistency mark. From what we are seeing, we
believe that almost anybody can learn to objectively type if they are
willing to take the time to build the right skills over time. Most
people just try to use their Saviors and biases only, of course fail,
and then give up. Like any other multi-level, complex skill, a student
needs to be in the same room as the instructor. From what we see, even
if everything is perfectly spelled out, the student is making 10
mistakes a minute and is not catching any of them. Ideally, from what we
are seeing work, a student should work with us for an hour a day, every
day, for 6-18 months in order to start typing beyond the 60% mark.

1) Know Yourself First. The first thing we see everyone doing wrong is
they have no idea who they really are. For example, the super chaotic
person has no clue how much pressure they are putting on everyone else.
Therefore, when they see someone else who is chaotic or controlling,
their mind has alot of unprocessed fear and blame that they then project
on the person they are trying to type. If someone can not see themselves
clearly, they are never going to be able to see everyone else clearly.
Become conscious of all of your Demons and resolve them. Know and
understand your type and baseline. Break down each of your 9 coins and
see them separately. Do chores each day and step back and watch yourself
be so reactionary and unconscious. If you can't catch yourself being a
weirdo with chores and the people in your life, you will never be able
to catch yourself in the far harder typing procedure.

1) Know The Other People in Your Life. Before you get to know the 512
types in both their male and female form, get to know just one person
first. Start with the person who is closest in your life right now. The
more they are an opposite type as you, the better. As you get to know
your coins, also get to know their different coins. Every time you see
them doing something "weird" ask yourself, how are you also doing the
same thing in your own way? Build the practice of stepping outside your
constant subjective self report and start to see and understand how we
are all doing the same kinds of things. First trust that the math is
real, then work backwards and force yourself to see it. Practice
trusting the math of constantly asking, "How am I also doing something
this annoying like this person does?" Only after you can see,
understand and catch yourself over 10 times a day doing the same stupid
shit everyone else of your type does, should you move onto studying
someone else. Only after you can understand and predict everything your
close friend does should you then move onto the next person to deeply
study.

1) Deeply Understand Each Coin. After you start to truly get to know
yourself, other people of your type, and the people closest to you, then
move on to analyzing the 9 coins in detail. Create your own doc of the 9
coins and start to study each of them individually. Ideally start with
the foundational coins first like Observer/Decider, Di/De, and Oi/Oe.
Also, start with the coins that you are currently the most interested
in. Start to see that some coins you like and can see very clearly, and
other coins you don't like and have a hard time seeing. Build the
practice of using the math of leveraging from the coins you can see, to
see the coins you can't see. For example, if you can see Di and
Thinking ok, you can use those two coins to understand Ti more. If you
can see De and Feeling, you can use that to see Fe more, etc.

1) Define Each Coin in Detail. You can't just watch our videos, listen
to our advice, and copy our checklist. You have to write out and
constantly define and refine your own written checklist and definition
of the coins. If you are building systems in your daily chores, you have
learned to stop "working on the dishes" and put all of your effort
into "working on the dishes system". Stop fucking doing everything one
to one. Stop running in, trying to do everything all at once, failing,
and then running away. Know that you are not going to get the terms,
coins, or typing the first 10,000 times you try. Rather, create a doc
where every time you fail, you are constantly making notes and refining
the doc. Only after trying every combination of what does NOT work, will
you accidentally stumble upon wording that does work for you. Have a
place to build these notes, because you are just going to forget
everything and go back to bad habits tomorrow. If you have been truly
getting to know yourself, this should not be a surprise. The personal
tools Dave uses is the Type-A-Tool and Elimination Tool. Dave also makes
notes of why he chose this coin and why. That way, when he gets coins
wrong, he can go back to his notes and see what to work on.

1) Fear Your Biases. Know and understand the work of Derren Brown and
how you have already made an unconscious, biased decision of what type
you think this person is within the first few seconds. You will now
waste the next few hours looking for anecdotes out of context to force
whatever type you want this person to be. You are so screwed if you
haven't settled with just how unconsciously reactionary you really are.
Enter into the typing procedure knowing you are super biased and watch
your biases. Write down your first guesses of what type you think this
person is to acknowledge your unconscious bias. Saying it outloud and
putting it down on your notes helps take away some of the power of the
biases. Know that the first 9 seconds is the most critical time to get
to know someone. So don't waste it by just opening up the video and
hitting play because you're lazy. Jump around their videos and social
media as fast as you can in the first 9-60 seconds so you can
unconsciously soak in more of this person's life, not just this one
sliver of a video out of context. Know that you are super biased and
have already decided what type you want this person to be. Know that you
are going to waste your time and just grab at anecdotes out of context
to force this person to be the type you unconsciously decided.

1) Catch the Anecdotes. The way our biases play out is in the addiction
and abuse of anecdotes. We see everyone doing this way too much; "They
said they like to organize their closet, so bam done, they are an
IxxJ!" "They said they are creative, so bam done, they are Ne!"
"They said they don't like people, so bam done, they are Di!" "They
said they have a hard time with emotions, so obviously they are a
Thinker. Bam done! This is so easy!" There is no fear that you are only
doing what you are doing to everyone in your life all day, and that is
completely taking things out of context, projecting what you want to
hear, and not ever actually deeply listening and getting to know the
other person. If you can't slow down and think through the overall
process, you will forever be trapped by your biases and lied to by
anecdotes. Questions to deeply understand and constantly think about
are; "Everyone can do everything, so what does this person mean by
this? "This person says they like to XYZ, so is that a Savior or Demon
state? Who is this person in the tribe? Are they really the awesome,
loving, intuitive organizer like they claim to be? What is this
person's actual life? What are they doing way too much of and can't
see? What voids is this person leaving for others to constantly fill? If
this person lived at my house for a week, what kind of pressure would
they be putting on me?" Catching the anecdotes 80% of the time is
impossible for most people because it takes extreme Double Observing and
Double Deciding. People don't put in the work to build these skills in
their personal life and therefore don't stand a chance in typing.

1) Never Make a Mistake! When you are defusing a bomb, you can never
make a mistake. You can go as slow as you want, but you can never make a
mistake. It is far better to take a year to type someone than to ever go
fast and make a mistake. It is far better to just say, "This person is
not Tony Robbins" than to ever force a guess all the way to 512. Most
people don't understand why this is so important and will just quickly
move past this step and continue the bad habits of guessing and failing.
What this does is it builds the pathways in someone's brain that we are
all just going to sit here and play the "guessing game" and "prove it
to me game". Your partner will never want to type with you again if you
are the person that is constantly being fast and sloppy and then forcing
them to slow you down. Hey ego-maniac, your partner is not asking you to
go fast and perfect like your liar-brain is telling you. This is real
science, so use the scientific method, go slow, use "allegedly-speak"
and only put down what you can prove. Of course you are going to make
mistakes, but you must get out of the habit of just blurting stuff out
and not understanding why that is going to make your life so much harder
down the line. Study real scientists and learn to speak the Scientific
Method. Always use wording like, "What I see at this time, this could
possibly be", etc.

1) Know the Video Game. Stop not connecting that most conversations
follow the same basic structure. Don't be so caught up in the TV
sitcom, that you can't step back and notice how all TV sitcoms follow a
similar outline. Stop turning on someone's typing video and letting
your liar body tell you that everything they are saying is real. All
typing videos follow the same, similar structure. This first 10-15
minutes is just social, how-do-you-do, liar talk. The person is tight,
nervous, and is just reporting basic bullshit. You do the same thing
when you meet someone at a coffee shop for the first time. The first 15
minutes are just words with no real meaning behind them. You might be
able to possibly pull some clues out from their speech pattern, but you
don't know this person yet. The problem is, most people just hit play
on the video, the person tells them a bunch of lies, the most
influential 9-60 seconds quickly passes, and now they are locked into
biases and lies. Go ahead and watch the rest of the video, you'll never
be able to pull yourself out of it. At about the 1/2 to 3/4 mark of a 1
hour video a person starts to really loosen up and start talking. You
are looking for a flow, a rant, an outloud processing session. Remember,
your job is to see what unconscious fears are driving this person. How
and where are they overusing their Saviors to combat their Demons?
Everyone is loaded with fear, anxiety, and depression. Just jump through
the bullshit and let them talk, they will tell you their fears over and
over again. By the time you get towards the end of their video, you
should be able to predict what they are going to say next and why.

1) Predict What They Say. If you really understand and believe in the OP
system and have seen it make dramatic changes in your own life, then it
is not hard to believe that you can predict everything someone is going
to say. You might not be able to predict the exact words they are going
to say, but you should be able to predict 100% of the categories someone
is going to say. For example, if you have narrowed someone down to an
ExxJ, and they really are an ExxJ, every time they are talking about
feeling stuck, not allowed, or in an unfair position, you should know
that in the next sentence they are going to start talking about and
blaming a specific individual in their life. If the person is a Savior
Thinker, then you should be able to predict and see that they have
unprocessed emotions causing massive unresolved pain in their lives.
Humans really are just the same 9 coins leaking out over and over again.
Clear away all the "unique, special, wording" of the day, and look for
the same cause and effects playing out. This is how you are checking
your work in typing. If you can't see every coin, in both a Savior and
Demon state, and if you can't understand and predict everything that is
going on in a person's life and why, then you don't have their type
right. But, like the first few steps, if you haven't used this code to
see through your own bullshit, you'll never be able to believe it's
that simple for everyone else either.

1)  Build Your Statistics. Your final check is to see if you got the
same (or at least similar) type as your partner. When you don't get the
same type as your partner (which will be most of the time) go back
through your notes and see which coins you got off from each other and
why. One of you (or both of you) saw something wrong and need to look at
the reasons why you went with this side of the coin and not the other.
What you'll see over time, is that you will get the same parts wrong.
For example, it might be easy for you to see Observer vs Decider, but
super hard for you to see Oi vs Oe, etc. The most valuable thing you can
do with typing people is to build your own personal database of people
you have accurately typed. For example, if you have typed 50 MF-Ne/Fi
types accurately, then you will have a very deep, accurate understanding
of what that type is really going through. When you come across the 51
Ne/Fi it is going to be alot easier and faster to recognize them and
type them accurately. After a while you feel like people are trolling
you. People start to feel like the same few characters, just dressed up
in slightly different clothes. Everyone of the same type says the exact
same story as everyone else of their type. You can only start to see
this by building up your own 10,000 hours of experience, just like any
other science.

U
undefined

UFO
This stands for "Unidentified Flying Object" and as of 2022 now
officially called "Unidentified Aerial Phenomena" (UAPs). See Aliens.

Unconscious Competence
Similar to the Dunning Kruger Effect there are four stages to learning
something new (see images):
1) Unconscious Incompetence: You don't know what you don't know. "I
have never even heard about Saviors and Demons!"
2) Conscious Incompetence: You know what you don't know. "Wait, I have
Demon Ti, oh shit!"
3) Conscious Competence: You can start to do it, but it takes full
focus. "Ok, so if I set goals and personal standards, I can start to
see my Demon Ti."
4) Unconscious Competence: You can now do it on autopilot. "I now have
built a habit to jump to my Ti when making a decision!"

Unconsciousness
If Consciousness is the combination of hundreds of binary programs
working together to triangulate and see more of reality (including the
other programs) - then unconsciousness is the other side of the spectrum
where there are less programs firing, all or most of which are unaware
of the others. For example, think of a small child, they are completely
unaware that they always forget to pick up their jacket, eat their food,
etc. They have built in programs to "eat their food" but they are
unaware of how unaware they are. The more conscious adult has more
programs firing and therefore can see what the child can't see. Scale
this analogy up and there are many older people that see you as a child.
They can see just how much you can't see and how many of your own voids
you are tripping over and don't even know it. Unconsciousness and Blame
are the two biggest factors we look for when meeting new people. The
more unconscious people are, the more they blame (because they don't
know what else to do).

Unconscious Processing
One of the biggest reasons you'll find yourself distancing yourself
from people is because they will vomit negativity on you and not even
know they are doing it. Most people have stacks of trauma and drama that
they are "not allowed" to resolve so it just leaks out in
conversations. For example, you are enjoying lunch with someone and they
drift into talking about how their ex did them wrong. They are going on
for 45 minutes now and are completely Hijacking the conversation.
Oftentimes the person justifies it in their mind because they are just
having an "off the record" conversation. They have no idea that they
are doing this all the time and people are starting to move away from
them.

Undercover Boss
A reality TV show that best illustrates that corporations are not run by
evil, all knowing, controlling, illuminati like groups, but rather
insecure, clueless, dopes. For all the Single Observers that have a fear
of the government and large corporations, this would be a show to watch.
It is very eye opening to see just how weak, insecure, and desperate
most CEOs really are. The hell in your workplace is probably not coming
from some "evil controlling mastermind group" rather, it is most
likely coming from a subjective, selfish ass that is trapped inside
their own head and can't see 99% of reality.

Update
The ability to learn, process, and download information to such a degree
that new behaviors are now updated. It is easy to hear, see, and
understand new information, but very little of it actually makes it all
the way down to updating our identity, behavior, and habits. Those with
a Fixed Mindset tend to have a really hard time updating. As it says in
the Bible, "Always learning but never able to come to the knowledge of
the truth."

Upside Down Typing
A phenomenon we commonly see where a person will get some, most, or all
of their type upside down. For example, Savior Play will see themselves
as Savior Sleep, the ExxP sees themselves as an IxxJ, Sensory sees
themselves as Intuitive, etc.

User
Usually referring to the soft wordage many personality systems use for
dominant Functions. For example, a Savior Te person is just a "Te
user". Wording terms this way implies the person has power over the
first Function, and not the first Function having power over them.

V
undefined

Validation
The De Function in everyone is looking for ping-back from the tribe. We
want to know that what we are deciding Extrovertedly is useful for the
tribe. Reactions such as; Good job, that's right, I agree, great idea,
I love that, is the validation the De Function is looking for. See
Pinging.

Valuetainment
Referring to Patrick Bet-David, who we often call "Valuetainment-Guy".
We typed Pat as a MM-Se/Fe-PB/C(S), the same type as CT Fletcher. Like
CT, and most other MM-Se/Fe guys, Pat spent some time in his 20s
pursuing bodybuilding. Pat then got into sales as a Se/Fe, and was
really good at it. Those with Se/Fe Functions have more of a natural
ability to track and beware of what is popular. Pat has built up his
Ti/Ni Demons and has a very in depth understanding of how and why things
sell. For us with the Se/Te Functions, it's hard for us to naturally be
aware of the market value of someone or something. We will like or not
like something based on our Fi and then go find fake Se/Te reasons to
back that up. Like Gary V, Pat can look at something in the market and
be able to tell you what most people are going to like or not like. His
ability to make millions of dollars each year is also objective proof
that his way of seeing reality is producing some kind of positive
feedback. Simply put, Pat and Gary V are our two go-to "popularity"
consultants.

Vibes
Savior Feelers are tracking and responsible for the subtle social cues
such as; sighs, pauses, voice tone inflection, sarcasm, etc. Feelers are
more responsible for the "vibes" (that everyone is emotionally
connected) than they are truth (does everyone agree with what needs to
be done?)

Victim
Not taking responsibility and therefore blaming the outside world. (This
is not including extreme cases such as child abuse).

Victory has Defeated You
When Bane confronted a retired Bruce Wayne, he told him "Peace has cost
you your strength, victory has defeated you." After someone fights
through hell, climbs up the Hero's Journey, reaches a position of
riches and peace, they tend to get soft when the good times come. Just
how good times create weak men in society (see Hard Times, Strong Men),
so does this pattern play out on a small scale in our personal lives.
For example, we have watched Owen Cook, Will Smith, and even Vladimir
Putin go from good to bad over the decades. Dictator Syndrome sets in to
anyone who doesn't have the evolutionary pressure on them and are not
being held accountable. As Harvey Dent once said, "You either die the
hero, or live long enough to see yourself become the villain."

Video Typing
The process in which a client submits 1-2 hours worth of video footage
and we independently watch their videos and offer our best guess of
their type. We currently take in 25-40 people each month and we open the
service exactly at 10am on the 1st of every month, and it sells out in
the first 15 minutes. We force people to be in the class for at least 3
months to slow them down and give them some time to soak in all the
disclaimers and warnings and have time to emotionally process that they
are going to be typed something they don't agree with. With video
typing we both independently follow the same Typing Procedure and
compare our results with each other once we have completed typing the
client. It is becoming increasingly rare for us to ever get someone's
Saviors off. The parts in questions are often the middle Animals like
CS/P(B) vs CP/S(B) or the sexuals (FF vs MF is common). What we do see
from typing hundreds of people is that those who where already on a
positive self growth track, do even better. Those that are stuck in
negativity and blame now just have more excuses and reasons to be a
Drama Amplifier.

Viktor Frankl
Our best guess is that Viktor was MF-Ni/Ti-SB/P(C), the same type as
Sadhguru and Casey Neistat. Viktor was a holocaust survivor and had to
witness and endure some of the worst things that can be done to a
person. He wrote many books including one titled, Man's Search for
Meaning. He found that what can pull a person through extreme hard times
is having a greater personal reason for the suffering. Many positive and
self growth people of today have also found and teach what he has
discovered. Our Savior/Demon Triggerings are going to want to flood our
bodies with stress chemicals and take us for a ride. Susan David is
always quoting Viktor when she says; "Between stimulus and response
there is a space. In that space is our power to choose our response. In
our response lies our growth and our freedom." If a guy that survived
the holocaust says you can choose to be happy or not, I sure as hell can
step it up and choose to not let a hard day bring me down.

Visual
The Visual and Audio modalities are on a coin with each other. This
means everyone has both modalities but one is more dominant than the
other. Those with Feminine Sensory have visual as their first (FM) or
second (FF) modality. A thousand people with Feminine Sensory can see,
capture, remember, and recall specific visuals of an event better than a
thousand people with Masculine Sensory. See Sexuals for how this
connects to the Functions.

Visual Typing
See Lookalikes, and Looks Like Game.

Voids
The problems we leave for ourselves and others by not doing our Demons.

W
undefined

Waking Up
Becoming more conscious of default programs and behaviors. This can
happen slowly over time as we get older, or in large jumps. Once you
have "woken up" to something, you can never forget it or go back to
the way things used to be. Many people become more conscious but then
fall into more depression. The Bible says, "The more wisdom, the more
sorrow" (Ecc 1:18). The challenge becomes building the daily discipline
to grow your responsibility to match your higher consciousness.

Walls of Jericho
An analogy from the Book of Joshua where the people circled the large
city over and over again before they entered and conquered it. When you
have a new topic that you are learning (like typing someone for example)
don't deep dive on the first thing you see. Keep moving until you see
the big picture and dive into the details only after you see the
information starting to repeat.

Wally Wallington
Our best guess is that Wally is a MF-Ti/Ni-SB/P(C). Wally built a
stonehenge type structure in his backyard. He did this with simple tools
and all by himself. He did in order to demonstrate that complex projects
can have extremely simple solutions if you factor in time and Chip-Away.
You'd have to look him up and watch a couple videos to see it for
yourself. As weird as this all is, what he demonstrated has stuck with
us for years now. Around the house when we have an overwhelming project,
we will say something like, "Let's play chip-away like Wally."
Meaning, stop trying to get shit done because you want it over with.
Stop needing that dopamine hit of completion. Writing out these hundreds
of terms I had to play the chip away game and just set my goals to doing
a few a day. Get your reward from doing 3 Wheelbarrows today, not
getting anything done (because that's going to take years sometimes).

Water Balloon at Forest Fire
The phrase is "Throwing a water balloon at a forest fire" or "Using a
garden hose against a forest fire." The analogy here is, some of
life's problems are so big and out of control, no amount of effort you
throw at it is going to do anything. For example, we see people who have
30 years worth of deep addiction's to their Saviors (and other bad
behaviors) and think that reading a bit about self growth off the
internet is going to do something. What we work backwards from is, if
we've been working as hard as we can at improving something, and it's
been over 3 months, and nothing has improved, then we are probably just
throwing water balloons at a forest fire.

Weight on the Bar
A phrase that is commonly used in the context of Flow State. If a task
is too easy, you might want to put more weight on the bar. If it is too
hard and it is causing a loss in productivity, then you might want to
take some weight off. Another context is referring to how easy some
people have it. Many people who live in Townsfolk land and have a Mommy
feel like life is easy because there is someone else carrying their
weight.

Wes Watson
We typed Wes as a MF-Te/Ne-PB/C(S). Wes spent 10 years in the California
prison system from about the age of 25-35. He was arrested for drug
trafficking and assault. After a few years in prison he finally started
to get worn down until he hit Deathbed. Like everyone who goes through
the Hero's Journey, Wes found salvation in doing his Demons. For him,
those are Masculine Si and Fi. He builds confidence for himself every
morning by getting up early and doing his routine. He has not missed a
day in over 10 years. As an Extroverted ExxJ, he gets very Triggered by
people and has an extreme case of Hulk Syndrome. Like all the other
Heros, he has a self process where he calms himself down and gets back
to gratitude. Wes is like a character out of a movie and is a good
example of how dirty the path to peace can be.

Wheelbarrows, 3
An analogy from when Dave and Shan had a giant ditch to dig to install
drain pipes 8 feet deep. This process took us a few years and each day
we just did 3 wheelbarrows. We've kept this habit with our daily work.
Each night we write down 3 tasks to do for the next day and we don't go
to bed until they are done. The trick is, you make these 3 tasks so
easy, that you'll want to do more each day as extra credit.

Whistleblowers
We see in our data that most government or corporation whistleblowers
tend to be a lead Consume ExxP or IxxP. The story from the
whistleblowers perspective is something along the lines of; "They are
abusing their power and/or turning a blind eye to what they know is
right. I had to let the secret information free or else really bad
things were going to happen." Even though most of the time there is
alot of truth to this, the sad thing is the whistleblower is then made
an example out of and their life is destroyed.

Will
See Free Will.

Winchester Mystery House
An analogy referencing the real WMH that is famous for its chaotic
layout of added on rooms. The added rooms represent all the fragmented,
out of context, one sided, victim stories of how the world did us wrong.
People present this complicated, convoluted story as a "truth" and ask
others to solve it for them. Similar to Santa Claus Bag, and opposite of
the Letting Go process.

Win for the Year
Staying focused on the long term progress and letting go of the small
losses in the short term. Our bodies are wired to look for a short term
dopamine hit. So if we did something amazing today, we get a kick of
good feelings. But most days you don't get much done or get set back
with bullshit. The mindset of winning for the year (or even the month)
is accepting that you are going to have things not go your way about
half the time. If you aren't winning today, that's ok, you can still
win for the week. This whole week went to hell? That's ok, you can
still win for the month, etc. This is just a mindset trick to let your
anxiety let go of a bad day so you can quickly move on and be ready to
move forward tomorrow when a good day is dealt to you. We have a Power
Outage Plan which is just a list of simple things to do when we are
feeling bad. You'll have good days, neutral days, and bad days. Just
get 51-60% good by the end of the year and you win. Let go of trying to
win and "feel good" each day.

Wiring
Refers to the table we use at the end of each class to look at
someone's type, Function stack, Animals, Sexuals, Activation, and how
they all interact with each other. See Activation.

Wolves
For thousands of years philosophers have often defined people in two
very general categories; The wolves/sheep, rich/poor, master/slave,
warrior/victim, etc. The wolf is the entrepreneur, the fighter, the
rebel, the one who sees the sheep and detests going along with everyone
else. Where the Sheep have a sense of security with being in the pack,
the wolves are driven with a sense of fear of being like everybody else.
The wolf works hard to do things their own way and take their destiny
into their own hands. The wolves fear being controlled by others or
attacked by other wolves. The wolf is not trying to Cope or escape
reality, but rather run towards it, prepare for it, and eventually
dominate it.

Woo-Woo
Also known as "the woo" is a term often used by Savior Sensory types
when describing Intuition. They will use this phrase like a disclaimer
to say something like, "I'm about to talk about unproven concepts
here, so let me clarify that I know all this guessing sounds crazy!"
Everyone uses their Demons, and we all feel a bit weird when we use
them.

Wood Chipper
The whole phrase we often use is, "Unconscious people are like Lemmings
marching into the wood chipper." This is when one person makes the
exact, stupid, major mistake that 50 people in front of them just did.
Video typing is one of the best examples we've seen of this. For years
now, we have been preaching that everyone types themselves upside down,
doesn't think they will do it, does it, and then freaks out that it
happened to them too. Yet, each month, month after month, no matter how
much we say it, most people are still traumatized that they typed
themselves upside down. Another example is the people that go on Shark
Tank and try to selfishly take more for themselves. They all end up
getting embarrassed and walk away with no deal. Yet, no matter how many
years they do this show, the next guy walks in confident as ever and
does the exact same thing. See I'm Special Disease.

Worst of the Worst
This phrase is from the Apostle Paul who humbly saw himself as the worst
of the worst and therefore was forever grateful for salvation. Jesus
also taught that the first will be last and the last will be first. What
this is all referring to is those who see themselves as "not that bad"
are actually the worst people. They will be happy and in the light and
be totally unaware that their darkness is about to explode out in a
horrible way. On the other side of the spectrum, there is a calmness to
a drug addict, criminal who knows they are horrible and is seeking help.
The only way to get through processing your type is to see how bad you
really are and not be able to forget that 24/7. Therefore, everything in
life suddenly makes sense. Those that can see how bad they really are,
are never able to feel like a victim because they know they deserve much
worse. The flip side to that is, they are forever grateful for every
little thing. This is so important, that it is the number one thing we
look for in meeting new people. Accepting the darkness in one's self is
the foundation of a Growth Mindset.

Wrong Clock
From the old saying of a wrong (or broken, or dead) clock is still right
twice a day. There may be 32 different problems in a day, and we all try
to use only our 1-2 Saviors to solve them. Every once in a while, one of
those problems really did need your exact Saviors! This once in a while
dopamine hit of, "See, I told you my Saviors solve everything" is
enough to keep us in the loop of using our Saviors on everything. All
the times our Saviors don't work, we just blame and go unconscious.

WWJD Bracelet
In the 1990s, there was a Christian fad where people would wear a
bracelet with the letters WWJD on it. This stood for, "What Would Jesus
Do"? This was a great way for people to stop and ask if they were doing
the right thing in life. Plus, others could point to their bracelet as a
sense of outside accountability when they were about to do something
wrong. As silly as this is, it's a powerful idea to constantly be
asking yourself all day, "What would Jesus, Derren Brown, Tony Robbins,
Jocko, or Gary V do in this situation?" The more you download the
stories from the greats, the more you do actually have their answers
stored away in your brain. Simply asking a good question like that at
the right time can disrupt your default subjective thought process.

Y
undefined

Yelling at Squirrels
When you have surpassed someone in self development and their immature
behavior is triggering you. We tend to lash out at others who remind us
of the bad behavior in ourselves. Yelling at the person is not going to
make you feel any better and it sure is not going to help them in their
development. They will have no idea what you are saying, and all they
will remember is to run away the next time they see you.

Yellow and Blue makes Green
An analogy we use to refer to combining two Functions to create the
action of a third Function. The math we use is the first Function
carries the Human Need and the second Function in the equation carries
the Letter.
Te+Fi=Fe Fi+Te=Ti Ni+Se=Si Se+Ni=Ne
Fe+Ti=Te Ti+Fe=Fi Si+Ne=Ni Ne+Si=Se

Yibby Skibby
See Skib.

You're Doing it Right Now
When someone is doing their Savior Functions while they are trying to
prove those Functions are not their Saviors. For example, Savior Se
types will oftentimes present Sensory examples to try and prove that
they are Savior Intuition. A phrase also used to point this out is Catch
a Few.

Z
undefined

Zen
When we mention "being more Zen" what we are meaning is letting go of
worldviews, Saviors, and stop demanding how the world should be. We have
found great peace and alignment with the Universe by accepting reality
for what it is, both light and darkness. Everything in nature is in a
state of flow, one side of the coin into the other. As humans, we love
to choose one side of the coin and shove down the other. We are so happy
when the market goes up, but feel like a victim when it comes down. We
love the birth of a new baby, but feel like the world is unfair when a
loved one dies. Our Savior Functions are at war with the Universe which
eventually builds up and crushes us. Stoicism, Zen, the art of letting
go and accepting reality for what it is. Of course you aren't going to
"like" most of it, and that's ok too.

Zero to Perfect
Won't get started unless it can all be done at once. Opposite of the
Chip Away process.

Zombies, Humans, Robots
This is an example of the Paper, Scissor, Rock principal playing out in
the business world. Zombies represent that person in your life who keeps
attacking you. Humans represent you trying to reason with them using
logic, compassion, and understanding. Robots represent what you
eventually are forced into doing and that is some kind of system to deal
with them. For example, a policy we have set in our own lives for our
friends and family who are a bit "non-positive" lets say, is a 2 hour
limit. So we don't meet at a home, we just meet at a restaurant for a
meal. That way, once the check comes, and you've been watching them
abuse the waiter for 2 hours, you can just get the hell out of there.
Another example is, we ignore texts, calls, or random "drop ins" from
most people. We train them to communicate to us through email. That way,
when they blow everything up into a drama mess (like they always do) we
have already created a paper trail to protect ourselves. You will never
be able to help a zombie enough times. They will always come back
another day to bite you again. It doesn't' end "when they get it" it
ends when you build a damn system.

P
undefined

P
Stands for Play.

Pain Equation
There are two pain equations; 1) Avoid pain now for a greater pain
later. 2) Take on pain now for less pain later. Every Child starts off
life with default programs to avoid all pain now and seek pleasure. Over
time, the avoidance of pain builds up into what we call Tidalwaves.
Somewhere along in the Hero's Journey, the Adult chooses to start
consciously living a new pain equation. They take on the pain of
Discipline now, for greater Meaning later.

Panic State
A reactionary state due to fear, triggering the Fight or Flight
response. Symptoms include nervousness, rapid heart rate, increased
emotional language, and narrowed, This-or-That thinking. We see panic
attacks and the Scientific Method on a spectrum opposite each other. So
during the day, think of it as you can be in a mild state of either one.
In a panic attack state (or non scientific method state) a person will
look at a situation as having one monster-problem, and one
magical-solution. This way of thinking also corresponds with a person's
Saviors and Demons. People in a stressed state often say phrases along
the lines of; "If you would just listen to me!" "If you don't do
this, everything will be lost!" "This is all we got to do!" "Get out
of my way, you are going to kill us all!" See Hijacker.

Paper, Scissors, Rock
A pattern we refer to that illustrates that whatever someone is strong
at, there is an opposite that can defeat that. For example, The
overconfident Ni can be defeated by Ne. Like paper capturing the rock,
the Ne can stand from an objective perspective and see the Ni. Like
scissors cutting paper, the sharp exactness of Si can defeat Ne. The Ni
can see the concepts that the Si's will miss, etc. This concept not
only applies to any combination of Functions but also in life and
business. See the Common Side Blotched Lizard and Zombies, Humans,
Robots.

Pareto 80/20 Principle
The Pareto Principle is something we often call the 90/10 rule. The
concept is that in many things, there is a bell curve of efficiency that
drops off after about 80-90%. For example, say you lived in a
neighborhood that has lots of trees and it's Fall time. Your dad tells
you to go outside and rake up all the leaves. You just have a rake,
gloves, and plastic bags, no leaf blower. After about an hour of work,
you fill up two large bags and your dad looks at the yard and tells you
well done. But really, you only raked up about 80-90% of the leaves.
There are still a few over there, some there, and little fragments of
dried leaves all over the place. So really, it takes one hour to get
80-90% of the leaves, and it would take an exponential amount of work to
get every little leaf fragment. This principle happens in things like
sales; 80% of your sales come from 10-20% of customers. It also happens
with problems; 80% of the complaints you get come from the same 10-20%
of people. Tim Ferriss is famous for overworking this principal.

Patriarchy
A social order that has a ruling male at the top with everyone else
playing some kind of supporting role underneath. What we often call
"Monkey-Mountain". Primates, dogs, and many other animals have a
genetic social order they all follow. Humans also have this default
social order built in. History has always had some form of a
dictatorship (kings) was the main type of group leadership. The pros to
this is that it's simple and universal to have the boss at the top and
everyone serving in ranks underneath. The cons are that this structure
turns into abuse over time. Which for Evolution, is a good thing,
because now someone steps up with their Saviors to save everyone, they
fight, break off, and go start their own competing tribe. This is
horrible for the individuals, but good for spreading the species. The
opposite of having a Dictator rule in a Patriarchy is to form a
Democracy.

Peacocking
Showing off one's Demons in a childish state. It comes across as a
kindergartner who tied their shoes and is proud to show this off.
Everyone on the outside tells them, "Good job!" The joke is, either
this person actually sucks at what they are showing off, or what they
did is not hard for anyone else. For example, people will peacock when
they are trying to prove to everyone that they are a type they are not.
The Se/Fi types (ESFP) will boast about how great they are at seeing the
abstract and making the best plans (Demon Ni). Peacocking in a positive
sense happens when someone does know their true type and they are just
proud to show off what was hard for them. For example, a Ni/Te (INTJ) is
going to be proud to show off how they navigated through chaos at the
store and bought a new shirt.

Pee Wee Herman Snakes
When you are going through hell, and you have 50 things to do that are
hard, work your way up to the worst one last. This analogy comes from
the 1980s movie Pee Wee Herman's Big Adventure. There was a pet store
that was on fire and Pee Wee ran in to save the animals. Right away he
saw the snakes and was scared of them so he ran past them and saved the
puppies first. One by one, he went back in and saved all the easier
animals and left the snakes to the end. He finally mustered up enough
courage and grabbed the snakes, ran out, and fainted on the sidewalk.
When he woke up the townsfolk praised him as a hero. When you have a
list of hard things to do, sometimes you need to just get the easier
ones done first and work your way up to the hardest level. Once you have
nothing else to do, you'll be forced to get the last one done.

Perry Belcher
Perry (not Barry as Shan always says) was one of the first internet
marketers. Many things that are used online today were first tested and
figured out by Perry. Most commonly known is split testing down to the
smallest details. For example, Perry would make two different sales
pages to sell the same product for the same price. He would use split
testing to test different styles of fonts, spacing, wording, colors,
size of buttons, etc. His overall conclusions were to not create what
works, rather to test and discover what works. It's human nature to
stick with what we want to work, rather than doing the painful testing
to discover what actually works.

Personality
The word personality can be defined a few different ways. Usually we are
referring to a person's 512 genetic type, specifically their
Temperament and two Savior Functions (32 Type). A person's overall
personality is usually referring to their 512 type plus External Factors
like Fixed and Growth Mindset, culture, upbringing, intelligence, etc.

Personality Practitioner
Anyone who offers a personality typing service.

Personality Tests
Personality tests aren't considered by real science to be legitimate
and we have gotten a first hand look at just how bad it really is. Most
people type themselves upside down to some degree. For example, the
gathering, chaotic, selfish person sees themselves as giving to others
and orderly. The Sleep last Extrovert will keep answering "YES" to all
of the Introverted questions. The Savior Sensor is trying to smudge
their answers so they get Intuitive as their type, etc. Everyone wants
to underplay their strengths/Saviors and appear awesome at their
weaknesses/Demons. So even if you have a perfect personality test with
every binary coin perfectly defined, people will still run to typing
themselves wildly upside down. It's more of a Cognitive Dissonance
issue, than it is about the data on the test. Self-tests will always be
around because humans believe the lie that they see themselves best.
Also, bigger companies realize over time that it is easier (sells better
with less drama) to just let people type themselves whatever they want
to be. This is why we go the route of trained Operators rather than the
same old, subjective Self-Typing method.

Personification
When a thing or abstraction is given personal traits. For example, "The
weather is really angry outside and the warm fireplace is calling my
name." Personification of the government and large corporations is
something that all Single Observers fall for. They will often see the
government as a collection of all knowing, all controlling, groups of
conscious people that are deliberately scheming against them. They
connect the dots in such a way that there must be some larger,
deliberate plan behind all the moves. For example, changes in the tax
code or health mandates are interpreted as, "They are trying to keep us
down, they want to take away our freedom!" The mistake is, they are
personifying the government as if it's a group of conscious people
acting in a deliberate way. In reality, governments, corporations, and
militaries are actually a collection of abstract moving parts that are
thousands of years old. Their great complexity gives them the illusion
of consciousness and deliberate predictable outcomes. But, like on the
Undercover Boss show, when you actually go down to the "government"
and confront "that bad guy" who is pulling all the strings, the
illusion quickly disappears. All you find is a bunch of local dopes who
"just work here" and have no idea how anything actually works outside
their little department. The bad guys must be hidden away in another
dark room, and so the illusion continues. See Cassie Jaye.

Pharisees
Jesus described the Pharisees as sparkling clean on the outside, but
rotting with death on the inside. Another word for a professional
hypocrite. This term comes from the New Testament and refers to
religious leaders that appear clean on the outside, tell everyone they
should do better, but they themselves are full of evil sin in their
private lives. Today we have priests that are "holier than thou" but
are then found to be molesting thousands of children again.
Pharisee-syndrome can cluster more around De Sensor types because they
will do "bean counting out of context" in order to try to determine
"who is better, who is right or wrong, who is worse". The dressed up
Pharisee can't see how bad they are because they are so busy pointing
the finger at everyone else.

PhD in the Problem
You have to know what the core of the real problem is in reality before
you start on the solution. Our Saviors are like a hammer so every
problem must be a nail. Most of the time, we try to fix every problem
with more of our Saviors, which of course just makes the situation
worse. It takes time to calm down the triggering fears and look deeply
to understand all the contributing forces of a problem and how one
factor affects the others. Once you have a "PhD" on the problem, then
it is simple to build a set of solutions that are the exact opposite
forces of the problem. Bottom line, spend 90% of your time on
understanding the problem, and wait for things to settle before you
start putting together your first draft of a solution. Panic Attack
reactions are fast and easy, the Scientific Method is slow and boring.

Pinged
Usually referring to Activation where an Animal is pulling energy from
two Functions. Picture an Animal as a motor that has two wires sticking
out of it. Each of these two wires have to "plug into" or "ping" a
Function. So it takes two Functions to power one Animal. This process of
an Animal connecting to two Functions is what we call "wires" or
"pinging". See Activation.

Pinging
Defined by looking to the outside world for a reaction in order to
calibrate the social spectrum. Savior De's are pingning off the tribe
in a Savior state. Examples of pinging would be statements such as:
"Does that make sense? Is that right? Do you agree? What do you think?
Do you like this?"

Pixie
Referring to the cute features of the Double Feminines. Often they have
slightly crossed eyes, small thin, pointy nose, sparkly eyes, and
overall very feminine features. Pixie is usually referring to FF
females, but FF males can also have the same features.

Play
(De+Oe) Extroverted Animal, opposite of Sleep, Rediscovering info, pings
off the tribe, unresolved, expends energy in the moment, crashes later.
Learning and doing chaotically with others. If Consume is learning by
yourself, then Play is learning with others. Think back to a long phone
call you had with a friend. You two chatted back and forth for a couple
hours and talked about all sorts of random subjects. Yes, it may have
been a high level of energy expenditure, but you got a worthwhile amount
of usable information out of it.

Play Last
Information Dominant, Drops the ball, drained by others, over process,
scared of the outside world. People with Play last have overactive Sleep
so they want to over process everything. For example, going to the store
and having people bother you is something we all go through. The primary
item you wanted was out of stock, the cashier was overly annoying, the
guy in line kept asking you dumb questions about your jacket, etc. For
the Play last, their Identity (Di) does not accept this, and their way
(Oi) doesn't want to go through that again. Rather than just moving on,
they will often spend the next few days inside their inner world trying
to process why that was so draining and how they can avoid it. They are
very reserved, and spend a lot of internal energy trying to figure out
how to avoid expending external energy.

Popularity
Defined by valuing something in physical reality. The Feeling Functions
(Fi &amp; Fe) are looking at what is most valuable, rare, important,
loved, and produces the most positive chemicals. The Sensing Functions
(Si &amp; Se) are looking at what is happening in physical reality. Not
theory, not someday, but rather right now. Can I buy one, put it in a
box, and send it to my friend? Most experts we see in the Cryptocurrency
space have Se/Fe or Ne/Fe in their Function stack. Those types naturally
are paying attention to what is valuable to the tribe, and they don't
judge it like other types do. In movies, the popular kids (jocks and
cheerleaders) are usually Se/Fi and Se/Ti types.

Popular Types
The personality community is obsessed with wasting time on debating who
is the more popular type. Most people just want a special shortcut so
they can tear others down to feel better about themselves. Like the
Lizards, Orange Yellow Blue, and NFTs, humans desire what is rare. For
example, Intuitive dominants were seen as more rare and therefore more
valuable for many decades. We've made it a conscious campaign since
2018 to bash Intuition and build up the truth about Sensory. Because we
come from a sales background we see and know how much the
popularity-factor plays out in a community. If you spend any time on the
personality forums you will see that most people will want to be a
certain type for about a year or two, and then it will move onto a
different type. Because this is so unconscious for most people it is
another reason why they have such a hard time accepting their true type.
"I can't be that type, that is the least popular type!" See Rare
Types for our best guess of which coins are more dominant.

Power and Control
At the core of all of us, we just want power and control. We all want to
be higher up in the Social Hierarchy and we want to be loved and needed
for who we are. Saviors are what we all do in an addicted way to get
ahead, and our Masculine Functions are what we fight on. But at the core
of it all, we just want our Introverted Functions. At the end of it all,
everyone just wants everything "their way". The word "Their" is Di
and the word "Way" is Oi. We couldn't really start seeing people's
patterns and predicting their behavior until we settled that we are all
just monkeys trying to kill each other off to get up Monkey Mountain.
This is why Robert Greene's teaching of the "48 Laws of Power" is so
important to understand and process.

Power Outage Plan
Accepting that you are going to have really bad days and have setbacks,
so have a list of easy things to do on those days. The "power outage"
may be literal, but most of the time it's going to come in the form of
getting sick, hurt, fired, broken up with, yelled at, triggered,
depressed, etc. Something is going to hit you this week and make you
feel like you are moving backwards in life. Stop resisting that and
start planning for that. Cut down on the amount of time you waste
feeling sorry for yourself. Take your losses (quickly) and have a
worldview that says that's ok, so keep moving. For example, I keep a
list of fun easy chores to do when I get set back this month. I might
even take my weekend break in the middle of the week if I need to. The
point is, I have a 1000 things that need to be done by the end of the
month. My day didn't get wrecked, just the order of which I need to get
things done as just changed. This has helped us so much to stop trying
to win for the day, taking our losses, and setting our goals to Winning
for the Year.

Preaching Demons
A sign of an Alpha is someone who is preaching their Demons. They have
gone through hell on their Hero's Journey and have developed enough
Consciousnesses to be able to see themselves. They can see and are
settled with darkness in themselves and take responsibility for them.
Therefore, they no longer have Tidalwaves building up. Their life
messages are most often discovering their Demons. For example, Te/Se
Tony Robbins preaches how we must Ni/Fi master our emotional states.
Te/Ne Wes Watson preaches that we must build a Si/Fi routine for self.
Fe/Ne Byron Katie preaches that we must Si/Ti examine our feelings to
see if they are true in reality.

Preceiver, P
This is a Myers Briggs term that describes people who are; open,
spontaneous, disorganized, flexible, late to their appointments, and a
bit selfish, etc. Types include ISFP, INFP, ISTP, INTP, ESFP, ENFP,
ESTP, ENTP. There is a strong overlap to the OPS description of
self-above-tribe (Di) and go-with-the-flow (Oe). This is anyone who has
Consume as their first Animal in the OP system. The MBTI did not take in
account the Jumpers so everyone who is given a "P" in their systems is
assumed to be dominant in their first two Functions. For example, the
ISFP in the MBTI system is assumed to be Savior Fi/Se. The Fi giving
them the self-above-tribe trait, and the Se giving them the
go-with-the-flow trait. But, in the OP system we've found that about
half of all types are Jumpers, meaning they are dominant in their first
and third Function. For example, many INFPs are actually Savior Fi/Si.
This gives them the self-above-tribe Di trait, but does not give them
the go-with-the-flow Oe trait. The P and J terms are trying to cluster
too many traits together and do not take in account for the Jumpers, and
therefore it breaks down. See Judger, Myers Briggs Letters.

Predictability
Personality systems such as the MBTI and BIG 5 are measured by their
ability to predict human behavior. The predictability of the MBTI is so
low, that science and psychology circles don't consider the MBTI a true
personality system. The BIG 5 however, does have some predictability
merit to it. We don't have an official way to measure the
predictability of the OP system yet, but we can say it's too much.
Meaning, it's more than the human brain can process. We see (ourselves
included) people that get good at OPS wish they could turn it off and
not know what everyone was going to say and do all the time. It's hard
to enjoy normal life again because everyone becomes so damn predictable.

Preferences
Usually referring to the soft wordage the MBTI and other personality
systems use for dominant Functions. Most personality systems don't want
people to feel like they are being put in a box from a practitioner that
doesn't know them as well as they know themselves. Therefore words like
"preferences" are used so the person can feel like they are not
trapped in a type.

Priorities
The Feeling Function is responsible to know if something is important or
not. Think of a to-do-list that is generated by the Thinking Function.
The Feeling Function uses values and emotions to determine the priority
of this list.

Prisons
We watched a lot of prison documentaries when we were working on
cracking the OPS code. We don't see violent criminals, gangs, dictoras,
Nazi, etc as some "rare event" that only "bad people" fell into.
Rather, we see that the extreme dark areas of the world only shine a
clear light on what is inside all of us.

Procrastination
Putting off what needs to be done until later. The ironic thing about
procrastination is that the task has to be done anyway, and yet we all
seek to avoid pain by putting it off till later - which only creates a
greater pain. This is a good example of the default Pain Equation where
we all seek to avoid pain now, for a greater pain later. Those that we
see get through procrastination all break it down into many steps. Jocko
Willink is one of the best we've seen at this. First, the Adult goes
after the deeper negativity, resistance, triggers, judgmental limiting
beliefs, etc. "Why the hell do I hate doing this so much?" Next, they
seem to then give themselves reasons and rewards that they actually
believe on the other side of getting this done. For most of us, we
don't want to do the task, we don't really believe we can get it done,
and we don't see any real reward for getting it done. Next, the Adults
break things way down into super small steps, Wally Wallington style. So
for example, if you have to write a report for work or school, rather
than trying to get the whole thing done at once, break it up into lots
of little steps separated by time and rewards like James Clear talks
about. The discipline of beating procrastination is a daily battle that
does get easier over time.

Profiles, 512
A long term goal of OPS (20 years from now) is to build personality
profiles off of real data. What we need first is over 100 people typed
of each of the 512 types. Preferably a lot more, even up to a 1000 per
each type so we can have more than enough data. We would then plan to
have a staff and systems to go through all that data and compile all the
useful facts such as; sexual preference, body type, disorders,
allergies, occupations, spouses, lifespan, political views, legal
issues, intelligence, clothes, haircut, etc, etc. Whatever factor you
can think of, we can track in the data if we have enough people typed.
Next, we'd need to split the profiles into male and female (that's now
1024 profiles). We'd also have to have a way of fracturing down the
data based on external factors. For example, you are going to have the
most in common with someone of your same age, gender, upbringing, birth
order, country, race, etc. This is why we'd ideally need thousands of
people typed per 512 type so we can take in account for the "types
within types" factor. So even in the smallest case scenario, we are
looking at just 100 people typed, per 512 types, times male/female
equals over 100,000 people typed, logged, data collected, etc. Currently
we have over 5,000 people typed so this is going to take some decades to
get enough staff and data collected. What we are seeing, even at our
current small scale, is that with enough data the predictability on
someone becomes limitless. This is why we see the FBI and CIA eventually
getting involved.

Programs
Usually referring to the 9 genetic coins as well as countless other
human programs. Anything that one person does that everyone else also
does. Basically, 99% of the human experience is run by default programs.
A few examples would be; daily routines, political and religious views,
cognitive biases, the desire to get ahead, love, hate, civilization,
etc. Anything that one human does that others also do when they are in
the same situation. In this self-growth space, the goal is not to get
outside or stop the programs, but rather, to put a space between
programs and not let them run on default from one to the next.

Projections
Carl Jung said that whatever we fear and hate about someone else, is
just a projection coming from ourselves. For example, Demon Ti people
call others stupid, IxxJs call others controlling, ExxJs go after others
that show insecurity, etc. We can only be hurt, offended, and upset in
an area where we ourselves feel stuck.

Prophet Without Respect
People see you a certain way, and can not update no matter how much you
grow. This is similar to what actors go through with type casting. This
phrase comes from the Bible (Matthew 13:57) where Jesus said that a
prophet does not have respect in their hometown or family. By the time
you are 25, all of your friends and family see you a certain way and
can't forget all the bad things you've done. They see you below them
in the Social Hierarchy. So when you try to better yourself and grow,
they will just remind you how much you suck. Most of the time, like we
see in the Hero's Journey, you have to leave your hometown and start
over somewhere new.

Provable
Referring to the typing process and having multiple crosschecks and
examples for a coin. The more crosschecks and examples of patterns of
behavior over time (not anecdotes out of context) the more probable a
coin is. For example, if you are suspecting Fe at the top, did you also
see: ExxJ? Savior De? Savior Feeling? Double Observing? Not Double
Deciding? Demon Thinking? Demon Identity? Each of these crosschecks need
to be seen many times and all the parts must match up. Something to note
is, we are not trying to "prove" type to the clients, the community,
or to science at this time. We are only working to prove a type to
ourselves when we get a different type as each other. For example, if
one of us thinks a person has Fe at the top, and the other got Te at the
top, then we go back to our notes and see who was off on the
crosschecks. The game is, when you are off, and your partner wants to
see your notes, you want to make sure you have all the crosschecks and
have your observations provable.

Prove it to Me Syndrome
A phrase that is used referring to the vast majority of people that
demand that something make sense to their subjective point of view in
order to believe something. It has to Resonate with them or else they
reject it. Most people, most of the time will dig in and have to be
convinced on every single point to accept that they are doing what
everyone of their type does. For example, this is common in Video
Typing. People will see everyone else marching into the Wood Chipper and
typing themselves upside down, but be completely unprepared that they
did it too. They are then stuck and stunned in a state of shock and
can't move forward until someone from the outside proves it to them.
The biggest problem is, we are all overdoing our Saviors more than 10
times a day which is building up our life Tidalwaves. The "prove it to
me" person is wasting so much time having to be convinced of every
little step that but the time they are convinced on one example, they
have already missed 100 more times they were over doing their Saviors.
The subjective method of "prove it to me or else I'm not convinced"
is just not fast enough to catch the many times a day you're overdoing
your Saviors. Only by working backwards from the Objective Math can you
begin to Catch a Few.

Psychedelics
People who take DMT, Ayahuasca, Mushrooms, etc all report entering into
some kind of spirit world. There are receptors in our brains that
interlock with the chemicals in these compounds. It is a fascinating
subject of how humans can inter the spirit world through these plants.
The common pattern we see is that (you guessed it) people see their
Demons in great clarity on these trips. For example, Joe Rogan is
MM-Te/Se-PC/B(S) and is a good example of the deep Ni/Fi world he enters
into. The SFs tend to see more of a NT world and the NTs see more of a
SF world, etc. The Di's see how they connect to everyone else, and the
De's see the value of themselves. It is our guess that the depths of
our unconscious is far deeper than we can ever imagine. For example,
think back to a super realistic dream you've had. There were people in
it that were far smarter than you and there was a complicated social
interaction of which you were standing back fearing... Yet, it was your
brain that created all those characters that were scaring you. What we
are seeing with psychedelics is consistent with what we would expect.

Psychologists, Traditional
We are constantly watching videos and reading articles from traditional
psychology and continue to learn so much from them. Traditional
psychology has also helped millions of people and has been an overall
positive force on the planet despite it not being perfect. Like any
other field, psychology is never "done" "perfect" or "complete";
there is always more to learn. Just our point of view, but the biggest
problem we see with today's current psychology and therapists, is that
most of them are only helping from their point of view. Meaning, every
ExxJ therapist we see is trying to save their clients from the
"narcissist", all the Observer therapists are trying to save people
from control/chaos issues, etc. So, if a client's problem happens to
align with the default bias of the therapist, you may have a win. Most
of the time, what we see and hear from people who go to therapists is
that it doesn't really help much and is just a place to talk things
out. Today, over-prescribing medication seems to be the biggest, "I
don't know what to do, so let's throw this at it" tool.

Punnett Squares
One of our first non-moveable presuppositions was that everything had to
fit into punnett squares. We saw that much of traditional psychology was
very "Winchester-mystery-house-like". Unfinished ideas, observations,
and concepts that were just thrown on top of each other. There was no
clear repeatable structure or rules that the observations where falling
into. All other sciences have some set of rules, laws, or framework that
they have to stay within. Traditional psychology seemed to be the last
"wild west" where anyone could come up with any observation. Who's to
say who's right or wrong? So, just as a complete guess, a desperate
attempt to force some order in all the chaos, we decided to make every
observation work within punnett squares. Maybe this was the right guess
that actually does align with reality, maybe it's not. We just had to
start somewhere, so we always looked for the binary opposite of every
observation we thought we saw. Any true, measurable, objective (meaning
your partner can independently see the same thing) had to be defined, as
well as its opposite, as well as two other coins to complete the punnett
square. For example, early on we could see Sleep/Play as a coin but we
could only see Consume. The punnett square game forced us to keep
looking until we saw Blast. This same discipline was foundational for us
to see the 4 Sexuals and understand how all the Human Needs interact
with each other.

Q
undefined

Quadrant, 4
A term from Socionics that refers to the four possible groupings of
Functions. People of the same Functions often report others of the same
Quadrant "speaking normally" compared to other Quadrants.
Alpha Quadrant, all types with the Si/Ne, Ti/Fe coins (xNTP &amp; xSFJ
in the Myers-Briggs system)
Beta Quadrant, all types with the Ni/Se, Ti/Fe coins (xSTP &amp; xNFJ in
the Myers-Briggs system)
Delta Quadrant, all types with the Si/Ne, Fi/Te coins (xSTJ &amp; xNFP
in the Myers-Briggs system)
Gamma Quadrant, all types with the Ni/Se, Fi/Te coins (xSFP &amp; xNTJ
in the Myers-Briggs system)

R
undefined

Race to the Bottom
This is referring to starting with your lower ended, Maslow's Needs,
before you run on and do the fancy stuff at the top. This is one of the
largest factors we see of why people can't get out of the lower levels
in life and move up. They refuse to master the lower ended levels and
would rather do what everyone else does, and that is waste 10 years on
looking for that 30 day short cut. They are responding off of "what
feels right to them" rather than what objectively works. When it comes
to training ourselves or others that are joining our team, we use the
term "race to the bottom" to refer to getting the hard stuff over
with. The fastest way to move up in life, is to first go down and
resolve and systematize all the lower ended things first. This way, as
you move up one inch per year, you never slide back down. As opposed to
everyone else that races ahead and then falls all the way back down a
couple years later.

Races
We are seeing personality traits clustering in race. Another way to look
at it is that the 512 personality types are not distributing equally
across all the races. But, we are also seeing all types in all races,
it's just that the ratios are not equal. We are not ready to release
all of the specific data at this time. Our current theory is that
personality type and body structure are somehow correlated. So for
example, red hair clusters in the male MF-Ne/Fi types. In order to have
the red hair gene, this must run in the family. In order for that gene
to run in the family, that family must come from a nationality that has
red hair (Irish for example). So, what we are seeing is that most of the
Ne/Fi types we find do have red hair and come from a European
background.

Racist Gene
A phrase we often use to refer to Tribalism.

Rare Types
There have been alot of personality myths out there like the INFJ being
the most rare type (which is not true at all). We have logged far more
INFJs than we have of all of the xSFJs combined. This does not mean the
xSFJs are "more rare" it just means that we are not finding as many on
YouTube (our primary place of data gathering). We see many xSFJs around
town and most of them are not online, so the data gets messy. Don't be
fooled by bullshit online saying which types are rare, etc. In order to
get true data it would take decades and you'd have to get clean samples
from all over the world. We have made more progress than anyone and we
are still decades out from being able to get solid statistical numbers.
At this time, the only thing we can say for some certainty is the sexual
variations. Across all data (online, real life, etc) we do see that the
FF are the most common, followed by the MF. Then there is a gap with the
MM in third and the FM being the least common. We can't prove this yet,
but there does seem to be a bit more Sensory types than Intutives.
Thinking and Feeling seem to break down pretty equally. There does seem
to be more Standard Types than Jumpers. We do see Consume &gt; Blast and
more Play &gt;Sleep. Our best guess at the last Animal order is: Blast
last and Sleep last the most common, and Consume last and Play last less
common. See Popular Types.

RCPowers
Also known as "RCSuperPowers" is Dave's old radio controlled airplane
business and YouTube channel. The company was started in 2004, peaked in
2010, and ended in 2016. The YouTube channel was started in 2008 and
accumulated over 100 million views. Dave used this business to learn how
to work video production, social media, e-commerce, etc. The OPS
business model is built off of the experience in the RCPowers business
model. The basic business model is to consistently produce YouTube
videos that get at least 2,000 views per video, with at least a 90%
thumbs up rate, that then funnel to a product or service. See the
DaveSuperPowers Channel.

Reaction Bags
A phrase we use that refers to the fact that it is looking less and less
each year that we have Freewill. In our 30s we thought that humans had a
spirit and the mind was just a tool and that we were making free
choices. The more we see how predictable everyone is, and how much
neurochemistry dramatically changes behavior, the more we are swinging
to the opposite extreme. This phrase is usually used in context of
watching ourselves or others do stupid, predictable behavior and not
being able to stop it.

Reasons
The Thinking Function is responsible to know if something is useful and
will work. Reasons, logic, ideas, and tools, are what the Thinking
Function uses. Thinking and reasons work opposite of Feeling and
Priorities.

Recommend Resources
We would not be able to build type people on a spectrum of 512 types
without the following foundational people. First would be Carl Jung and
even Myers Briggs and the basic layout of the 8 Functions and 16 types.
Tony Robbins taught us how to ask better questions and how to have a
Growth Mindset that can solve complex problems. The series How the
Universe Works helped us break away from our "magical, sweep everything
under the rug" religious worldview and see that everything works in a
binary, cause and effect way. Basically, giving us the needed
Evolutionary Psychology foundation in order to get results in reality.
Next Derren Brown opened our eyes to just how much our inner
imaginations create our perceptions of reality. Humans are good at
believing a lie and go to their death thinking they are right. Robert
Greene's 48 Laws of Power gave us a place to make sense of all the
aggression and violence we kept seeing in our friends and family.
Lastly, the documentary BUDS Class 234 showed us how to use the
objective method, work as a team, and never give up.

Red Hair
This is an example of a Genetic Factor that we see Clustering in certain
types. So, this does not mean that if you have red hair that you are one
of these types, or if you are not one of these types, that you don't
have red hair. It just means that we see red hair showing up in these
types somewhere between 25-90% of the time. The numbers and percentages
will improve with precision as we get more people typed over the years.
But to give you a rough idea, here are the types we are seeing red hair
showing up in most often. By far, if you are a white, male, ENFP, you
most likely have red hair. Next would be the ISFP (Fi/Se) especially the
males. Next we see red hair showing up in some ESTJs, very often the
Te/Ne. Lastly we see red hair showing up in the female ESFJs. Again, we
will see red hair in other types, it's just very uncommon. If I were to
take a guess at this time (2022) I'd say that if a person has red hair,
they are most likely one of those types.

Repentance
An important step along the Hero's Journey. To be able to look back at
one's life and see all the pain they caused in their own life and
others. Death like feelings of remorse, deep sorrow, and being in debt.
Without a true, deep, self consciousness repentance, one does not have
enough fertile solid to build a new life. Repentance is the stage where
someone can stand outside themselves enough and truly see (and feel)
just how bad their dark side is. This foundational knowledge is what the
new, free, loving and abundant Alpha identity is built on.

Reporter (Robot)
Referring to ST types that communicate with just the facts and are
devoid of emotion or prioritizing.

Responsible
Taking full Ownership, being dependable, keeping promises and
commitments. Someone who is high in responsibility has a self standard
that they are going to follow through with what they say, no matter
what. People who are low in responsibility tend to just focus on the few
things they can or want to do. Once something comes up that is "outside
their control" they give up, blame, or quit. In their minds that's ok,
because they are not responsible, someone else is. Though, they may be
"right" and this may be "fair" it only lowers their social status.
Though this is a trait we all should develop, it does appear that some
people are born with more of this trait than others. Elon Musk and Alex
Hermosi are examples of high responsibility.

Resonate
Traditional personality systems encourage people to "resonate" with
their Best Fit Type. In the OP system we encourage people to be ready
for the exact opposite. For example the selfish, controlling, Sleep-IxxJ
person sees themselves as easy going and caring. The chaotic ExxP sees
themselves as a master planner, and so on. In our video typing process
we encourage people to give it about a month to process because getting
their type back is such a shock to the system. What we see in the data,
is most of the time people "resonate" with their type, is because they
have their type upside down.

Results
Actually accomplishing what you set out to do, getting the job done,
pass or fail. The problem is we all run in subjective circles reacting
off our Saviors and Demons. To get out of this tidalwave cycle, one must
set clear objective goals to at least attempt to walk in a straight
line. Results are the objective feedback data to determine if you're
doing good or not. For example, say an objective goal is to workout for
just 5 minutes a day, every day, and not miss more than 2 days in a row.
Three months later you look back over your data and see that you did
this 80% of the time. You may feel good or bad about this but that
doesn't matter. The "Results" show that you did good. The point is,
you can't trust your thoughts and feelings most of the time, but you
can trust the data points, feedback and results of objective goals.

Robert Greene
We typed Robert as a FF-Ne/Ti-CS/B(P). Robert is famous for writing the
48 Laws of Power and similar books. This book hit a nerve with alot of
people because it goes below the surface level bullshit we lie to each
other with. Robert gets down to the real selfish motivations of humans
and how we are all wanting Power and Control so we can be at the top of
Monkey Mountain. We see that most people will never truly understand
themselves or others because they refuse to leave Fakeland and get down
to the real motivating darkness like Robert does. Robert's lessons are
what every person eventually sees for themselves if they are in the
Arena for enough decades. If you can't see what Robert is saying with
your current friends and family group, then you are the Sucker in the
Room.

Rock Bottom
When a person finally gets sick of their Tidalwaves and decides to
finally do something about it. Many people never get to this stage
because they are not conscious enough to see that they are causing the
recurring problems in their lives. Many people also don't have enough
Weight on the Bar to ever be pushed to a breaking point. It takes both
extreme pressure from the outside world, for long periods of time
(decades most often) and extreme consciousness for someone to get to
rock bottom and then make that final Choice to start to live a new life.

Rolodexing
Or "Spin the Rolodex" refers to Savior Oe jumping from topic to topic.
Also known as Channel Changing.

Rot Brain
Referring to someone who is getting older and is still addicted to their
Saviors. By the time someone is 40, their malleable brain has become
hardened. For many people, this means they trap themselves in their
house and complain all day. A healthy person has a feedback loop of
having a bad idea, trying it out, getting a correction, adjusting, and
then trying again. It is painful to use only your Saviors, get smacked
for it, and then have to be humble enough to learn to use your Demons.
For the person with rot-brain, there is no feedback loop for learning.
They have a bad idea (Saviors only) yell at everyone in their life about
how things "should be" and then have no negative pushback for it.
Decades later, like a Dictator, they actually start to believe the crazy
shit they are saying. This person has become lost and is unable to take
in, process, and apply any real truthful information because everything
has become a threat to them. Basically they are now just a child that is
trapped in an old person's body.

Run to the Top of the Mountain
Humans seem to have an evolutionary program that tells us all to run to
the top of the mountain (Social Hierarchy) and to do it with our
Saviors. Like Termites, evolution doesn't care which of us actually see
reality, it's just a numbers game. We are all pumped with a powerful
dilution that we are special, we see reality, and if everyone just
listened to us, then the world would be a better place. You can see this
in others when they get very animated about something on the news or
advice that you have to listen to. You can see it in the workplace where
people are convinced they can help a business if they could just do
their pet-project full time. You can see it with celebrities who
actually did follow their passion, come out on top, and tell others to
follow the same path. Just remember it's a numbers game. Everyone wants
to run to the top of the mountain using only their Saviors, but only a
few randomly do it.

Rushing the Chessboard
A term often used when referring to common personality typing mistakes,
but also applies to other projects that involve lots of moving parts. In
the game of chess, one of the hardest things to master is to resist the
urge to just rush the board, go for the attack, and try and win fast.
More than 99% of the time this only gets you killed because you are so
focused in on your "one super move" that you don't see what else is
going on. In video typing, people will hear someone say, "I like to
organize my closet" and then the person typing will rush the board and
yell, "They must be Si at the top!" There is not a slowing down of the
brain and stepping back and really taking in all the moving parts of the
sophisticated puzzle here. Everyone has this urge strongly (the urge to
let your biases and Saviors jump in and save the day in one shot). Very
few people can even see this in themselves, and even far fewer put in
the Training to begin to try and Catch a Few.

S
undefined

S
Stands for Sensor, Sensing. S also stands for Sleep.

Santa Claus Bag
The same concept as the Winchester Mystery House where someone has a
collection of false beliefs that they won't let go. As the years roll
on, people collect more and more reasons why they are a victim and
clutch onto more Favorite Blankies to help them cope. Getting free of
anxiety and depression is therefore not easy because of this huge bag of
excuses and reasons why. Opposite of the Letting Go process.

Savior Function
Also can be referring to a Savior Letter, Animal or Sexual Modality.
There are 9 genetic coins that we are tracking in the OP system. Every
person has one side of each coin as Savior and the other side as a
Demon. For example, if you are Savior Feeling, then you are Demon
Thinking, etc. In traditional personality systems this term is called
"preferences" or "dominant". Responsible for, obligated to,
possessed by, better at than most people, role in the tribe, does on
autopilot and doesn't even realize it, life pile.

Savior State
When a person is in a Savior state they are speaking and acting in an
easy and obvious way. They are obligated or responsible for this
Function. The tribe unconsciously knows what Social Role this person
plays. For example, the Savior Se person may even say that they hate all
the chaos and gathering, yet, they keep doing it. Saviors seem to work
off the same kind of wiring as addictions. We have to do them all day
and most people most of the time, don't even realize they are doing
them. Saviors are what are easy, obvious, what we do more of when
stressed. For example, when the lead Se types will disagree with their
typing results, they will send us a bunch of scattered Sensory examples
of how they are not Se. Every type is doing this all day and never
catches it because Saviors are so "REAL" to us all.

Scaleable
The opposite of scalable is the One-to-One. Rather than doing one
amazing task for a short amount of time, can you do a simpler task
forever? For example, people might build a social media channel, run a
personality business, and make their own self-test. To them, this all
works great, what's the problem? What they are not seeing is that just
because something might be "working" for them, right now, on a small
scale, does not mean things don't fall apart if 1000 people did exactly
what they did. A phrase that we stick to is, "It's not what you can
do, it's what you can scale." Building something scalable is trying to
answer this question: "Can this action be done a million times, by
anyone, over the next 50 years, at a super low cost, without ever
skipping a day?" See E-Myth.

Scam
Usually refers to an IxxJ, particularly Savior Ni with Savior Blast and
Sleep. All Ni-IxxJs are working on some kind of system or
oversimplification of the world that they want to share with others.
Overtime, many of them go into business and want to sell their "steps"
to success. They find that capturing emails and sending out a newsletter
has the best conversions (or whatever the current sales tactics are).
From the outside point of view, even though they have good intentions,
they look and feel like scammers. Overexcited, they have the magic steps
that will solve all your problems, just download my course, come to my
seminar, etc.

Science, Take it to
The phrase "Let's take OPS to science" is something we wrote years
ago and have since retracted. The reason for this is, we received weekly
emails from Hijackers demanding we listen to them. All the messages were
about the same and read along the lines of; "Hey, if you really want to
take OPS to science, you need to listen to me and my Saviors! Do it this
way right now with me or else!" So in order to avoid the selfish
hijackers, we just tell them that we aren't going to do it and they
should save the day and do it themselves without us. This is a technique
to buy us more time to build up the lower ended foundations to do this
right over time.

Scientific Method
We believe that the scientific method is not only a set of steps to
follow, but also an internal worldview to commit to. We see subjectivity
as the problem, and objectivity as the answer. When we are stressed, our
brains speed up into a panic-attack-like state and go all in on Saviors
only. When we slow down, and let go of the outcome, we can use more
Functions and time to discover reality. When it comes to personality
research, we follow the traditional steps of the scientific method.
First, we put in alot of effort to really break down and define all the
terms. Second, we make predictions that if we are seeing the Functions
accurately, we should be able to get the same type as each other, as
well as know, understand, and predict a person's recurring life
problem. Third, we gather data each week by always typing new people.
Fourth, we log our typing results and constantly build our understanding
from the data. Fith, we go back to refining the definitions based on our
constant updating and also share our progress through weekly videos.

Se
Stands for Extroverted Sensing.

Second Function
The second Function is in reference to the four Functions in the Grant
Function Stack. For example, an INTP has Ne as their second Function. A
Standard INTP has their first and second Function as Saviors (Ti/Ne). A
Jumper INTP has their first and third Functions as Saviors (Ti/Si). For
Standard types, the third Function is a Demon, and for Jumpers the third
Function is a Savior. The second Function is also in balance with the
third Function with an approximate ratio of 60/40. Even when the second
Function is a Demon, it does not go into dramatic swings like the fourth
Function.

Self
Usually referring to Di, see Introverted Decider.

Self above Tribe
Anyone who is Savior Di (Fi or Ti).

Self Report
Most often this is used in a negative sense and is referring to when
people are telling a story from their point of view in a confident
"case-closed" state. What has been the most fascinating phenomena in
this work is seeing just how off the charts delusional we all are in
some way. Everyday, we listen to people tell stories about their lives
and how everyone did them wrong. The ExxJ will carry on about how one
specific person attacked them for no reason. The IxxJ goes into great
detail as to why they need to dump all their resources into their plan.
The ExxP goes on and on about how good they are at organizing, as they
are literally on their phone running to the next store. The IxxP will
talk for hours about how their way is better than all the idiots, and
then can't figure out why they don't have any friends. Like Donald
Hoffman's work brings to light, reality to the human is just whatever
gives us pain/pleasure. So if that person or situation triggered my
Demons, then obviously that was bad. A person's subjective self-report
or Introverted world is one's reality. Objective reality is bouncing
off our heads all day and we just ignore it. It's just too cozy inside
our self-story.

Self Typed
The act of someone determining their own personality type using
personality material and/or a self-test. What we have found in our data,
is most people type themselves wildly upside down. The most common
mistakes we see in people trying to type themselves are these: First,
they can't see their Saviors because these Functions are so obvious to
them and they don't value them. Second, people "wake up" when they
have to do their Demons that one time, and therefore they think that is
who they are. Third, no one looks at who they are in the tribe of 100
people (see Social Norm). For example, the ExxP that types themselves
lead Oi, never stops to look to see if 90% of people are really more
chaotic than them. If we were to take a guess, we'd say that only about
10-30% of people are close or right on when it comes to self typing.
Most people have not resolved their inner fear, pain, and anxiety
therefore they are unable to see themselves or others clearly.

Sensing (S)
One of the four Letters (Feeling, Sensing, Thinking, Intuition). Sensing
and Intuition are opposite of each other and are an Observing Coin.
Sensing is defined by the cognitive process of observing something in
physical reality. Sight, sound, touch, something that has happened,
proving, grounding, reporting, realistic, facts, specifics, etc.

Sensor
Anyone who is Savior Sensing, Si or Se.

Servant
The servant is opposite of the default, primal, selfish Ego. The Ego is
constantly asking questions like, "What's in this for me?" and the
Servant is asking questions like, "How can I be used to serve others?"
The Ego is something that all you have to do is nothing, and it will
continue to grow out of control and take over. The Servant is something
you have to daily humble yourself and build over time. The Servant is
the Adult that has gone on their Hero's Journey, is empty from their
Addictions, and is no longer here to save the world with their Saviors.
The Servant is filled with gratitude and is looking to give to others
out of abundance and non-need.

Sexual Preference
We'll know more as more science is done, but it seems to be that your
sexual preference is strongly genetic. For most people this is
heterosexual, and for others they are on the LGBTQ spectum. Genetic
sexual preference also seems to include fetishes like the search tags on
porn sites. For example, having a sexual attraction to feet is a
measurable fetish that some people have. The sexual attraction to minors
also seems to have a strong genetic factor. The knowledge of this is
extremely useful because many Pedofiles are trying to suppress their
urges, but are under so much social shame, they don't have anyone to
reach out for help.

Sexuals
The term "The Sexuals" is usually referring to the sexual type of a
person. The OP system is tracking 128 personality types times four
sexual variations of each type. All Letters/Functions hold a Masculine
or Feminine value to them. So if your Sensory is Masculine, then your
Intuition is Feminine, etc. The way the sexual type is determined is as
follows: First, we are looking for the sexual value of the Sensory
Function (Si or Se, Savior or Demon, doesn't matter). Second we are
looking for the sexual value of the Extroverted Decider (Fe or Te,
Savior or Demon, doesn't matter). The other interesting thing to know,
is there are four modalities that follow the sexual type. Below is a
basic description of the four sexual types and the Modalities that
follow them:
FF Feminine Sensory, Feminine Extroverted Decider (Tester, Visual,
Audio, Kinesthetic)
FM Feminine Sensory, Masculine Extroverted Decider (Visual, Tester,
Kinesthetic, Audio)
MF Masculine Sensory, Feminine Extroverted Decider (Audio, Kinesthetic,
Tester, Visual)
MM Masculine Sensory, Masculine Extroverted Decider (Kinesthetic, Audio,
Visual, Tester)

SF
Anyone with Savior S and F (Fi/Si, Si/Fi, Fi/Se, Se/Fi, Si/Fe, Fe/Si,
Se/Fe, Fe/Se).

Shave, Shaved
A nickname that the Facebook Group has given Dave and Shan by combining
both names together. Same concept as "Bennifer" (Ben Affleck &amp;
Jennifer Lopez) and "Brangelina (Brad Pitt Angelina Jolie). Despite the
extensive, over the top warnings and disclaimers on the Video Typing
page, people still are surprised that they have their type way off.
Those that have been through it, like an initiation process, wait for
new people to go through it and see who freaks out. Being "Shaved" is
also used to distinguish between those who have been Self-Typed or
Officially Typed.

Shawshank Redemption
A movie that came out in 1994 and is an excellent story that relates to
what it's like going through Hell. It is about a guy who is falsely
accused of murdering his wife and is sent to prison. Like everyone else,
he goes all in on plan A, which is, "How do I get out of here now?"
He's filing appeals, trying to convince the Warden that he's innocent,
etc. Like life, when we are going through hell, we waste alot of time
looking for the shortcut to make the pain stop now. What unfolded
throughout the movie was that he was chipping away at the wall in his
cell every night for 19 years. So finally one night, after years of
planning, he broke out. The major lesson from this story is you are
trapped in hell, life sentence, you're done. No one is coming to save
you, cry as much as you need to and let that sink in. You might as well
get chipping away at something positive that may pay off years down the
road. The time is going to pass anyway, so you might as well Chip Away
for at least 15 minutes a day when no one is looking.

Sheep
Jesus, Nietzsche and many other philosophers have referred to people as
sheep. In this concept there are two general categories of people; the
wolves/sheep, rich/poor, master/slave, warrior/victim, etc. The traits
of the sheep tend to be passive and lazy and stick together for a sense
of security. The sheep spend most of their time Coping, Couch Dwelling,
and going along with Tribalism in order to fit in. The sheep know deep
down that they are not pushing themselves to really take control of
their own lives and are therefore giving up their power to others. Every
night they stay up watching videos, is another night someone else is
working hard and getting ahead. See Wolves.

Shit-in-the-Pipe
This is a phrase we use in referring to a mistake you now see you made,
but you have to let the consequences play out. For example, say you made
a new friend that you now see is toxic, but you have an appointment with
them next weekend. You now see that you need to end this friendship, but
you also made this commitment, so you have to go. Shit-in-the-pipe, go
to the damn event, get it over with, and never make this mistake again.
The same concept applies to a job, or living situation, or business move
you made that you now see has to stop. You can't just jump out now, you
have to let it play out.

Shortcuts
Much of the Hero's Journey is about the contrast of the Child vs Adult.
The Adult accepts that things take time, they can't use only their
Saviors, and results slowly build up over time. The default state of the
Child is to scavenge for shortcuts and find a way around this. What is
funny to see over time, is going the slow way, is actually the fast way.
Ten years later, the Child is still running side to side, reacting to
the latest and loudest shortcut. While the Adult is now getting compound
growth from all the time they put in. Shortcuts, path of least
resistance, take the easy way, is a Default Program that is in all of
us. Most people never see past it and build the Discipline to work out
of the trap.

Should
Usually used in a negative context referring to someone who is non-Zen
and wants the world their way. Tony Robbins says that when people are
stuck they, "Should all over themselves". For example, "The world
should not be this way, they should be nicer to me, this thing should be
easier to work, etc". It's not the specific word "should" that is
bad, rather a person's demand that the world revolves around them in
some way. We all get the "shoulds" when it comes to our first and last
Function.

Si
Stands for Introverted Sensing.

Si Lips
Thinner lips that tend to cluster around those with Si, especially
Savior Si. Mark Linn-Baker is an ESTJ and has a good example of Si lips.

Si Mustache
Often known as a "cop mustache". We see this type of mustache cluster
around those with Savior Masculine Si.

Sigmund Freud
Our best guess for Sigmunds type is MM-Ti/Si, possibly SB/P(C), but we
don't know for sure. We are fairly confident he was MM-Ti/Si. Carl Jung
was a student and later a coworker and friend of Freud's. The two
eventually split up (as all IxxPs do). For us, we kept finding what we
were measuring and tracking coming back to Jung's work. We didn't see
this as much with Freud's work. Freud does bring to light the sexual,
masculine, and feminine urges of people. As well as the driving force of
the ego. But like most great people we study, we can't help but see how
much he is just reading himself into so many of his interpretations.
Freud's type is an aggressive, ego-driven, sexual type (all guys of
this type are this way). Carl Jung was just as crazy as the next person,
but his mathematical, binary coins forced some amount of consistency
that seemed to work out. Anyway, we see Freud as a character in Carl
Jung's life.

Silent Majority
The human brain remembers all the bad comments and forgets the good
ones. For example, all YouTube creators struggle with the negative
comments and forget all the positive comments. Furthermore, most people
that are supportive don't write any comments at all. This silent
majority is always forgotten once a creator starts to feel bad from the
negative comments. This concept also follows the Pareto Principle, where
80-90% of the people like you just fine, but you are always hearing
negative from that small, but loud, minority. See True Believers and
Facebook Group.

Single Activated
In regards to looking at someone's type on their Dashboard. Single
Activated is when a Function is getting Pinged by only 1 of the top 3
Animals. For example, Shannon who is Te/Se-PC/S(B) is Single Activated
on her Te because only her Savior Play is pinging her Te.

Single Decider
The technical term for Decider (IxxP, ExxJ).

Single Deciding
This is where an IxxP or ExxJ gets stuck in their point of view and
can't see others' points of view. Extreme, triggering feelings of
Fixed Mindset wash over their bodies in this area; "I'm stuck, I'm
not allowed, this person is the best every, this person is the worst
ever, they don't understand me, no one believes me, they are all wrong,
why would they do this to me, this is not fair, they are judging me, I
need to leave and find someone who gets me, etc."

Single Observer
The technical term for Observer (IxxJ, ExxP).

Single Observing
This is where an ExxP or IxxJ gets stuck in an observation and can't
see the missing information to the puzzle. Extreme, triggering feelings
of Fixed Mindset wash over their bodies in this area; "Why is this not
working, how am I supposed to know, where did it go, this is not
possible, they are hiding it from me, this chaos is wrecking my life,
I'm being controlled and feel like I can't breathe, I've got to get
out of here."

Sissy Syndrome
When a person has Feminine Demons (Opposite of Hulk Syndrome where a
person has Masculine Demons). Sissy Syndrome is when a person has
Masculine Savior Functions which produce alot of relative shovey energy
compared to the social norm. Mike Tyson and Tony Robbins are examples of
people who are very masculine and confident on the outside, but then
swing to insecurity and self-doubt when they are down. Sissy Syndrome is
the most intense when the Demons are both Feminine, Introverted, and
abstract (Fi, Ni).

SJ (Myers Briggs)
In their system this refers to the ISFJ, ESFJ, ISTJ, ESTJ.

Skib
A nickname for the Play and Consume types (PC, CP, especially with Blast
last). Skib is short for Skibby or Yibby Skibby. This is an inside joke
from when Shannon was a kid and she would yell "Yibby Skibby" and run
around like a happy idiot. An example of modern day "Skibbing" is when
you see the person standing in the grocery store line clutching 50
items. They walked into the store and told themselves, "I just need a
few things.'' They refuse to plan (because they are Demon Sleep and
Blast) and don't want a cart because it slows them down from dancing as
they walk.

Sleep
(Di+Oi) Introverted Animal, opposite of Play, Processed state, self
reflective, resolved, self-preserves, actually puts on the brakes. The
Di and Oi seem to be "talking to each other" and trying to resolve
questions like, "Do I like this? Is this part of who I am? Is this true?
Why does this keep happening? Who do I want to be? What is my path in
life? Who am I going to be? How am I going to make this happen? Where
will I be in 10 years if I stay the same?"

Sleep Last
Information Dominant, Won't slow down, won't process, goes until they
crash. They are often the "Type-A-Personalities" that are real
go-getters. They are Info Dominant so they are able to take in and share
information well. As soon as they are done conquering one mountain, they
are onto the next. They will push themselves until physical exhaustion
and have a hard crash. They will also forever be learning but never
downloading which starts to show as they get older.

Sleep Processing
Taking some time to pause life (turn off the Play energy) and actually
go inward. Oftentimes people will do this in the shower or right before
bed. For example, if you walk past someone at the park and they are
sitting on a bench and just staring at the ground, they are probably
Sleep processing. Sleep energy is when you are actually processing and
resolving issues. People low in Sleep tend to be unresolved on their
personal issues compared to people with Savior Sleep.

Sleep Report
Usually refers to someone selfishly telling a boring story about
themselves. Will oftentimes include Owie-Reports.

Social Classes
There have always been social classes throughout history. A lower,
middle/low, middle/upper, and upper class. There are many ways to divide
and label the classes, but the point is there has been, and always will
be, rich people at the top and poor people at the bottom. Almost all of
the ancient cultures had the idea that families tended to stay within
their social class. Looking at modern day statistics, even though most
people are free to move up social class, they don't. Studies show that
zipcode is one of the largest determinators of success. The statistics
of Gregory Clark bring some insight into how much genetics factor into
social class. As our data set grows, we think we are seeing patterns in
how a person sees themselves socially. For example, Arnold
Schwarzenegger was just born seeing himself at the top (as do most high
achievers). We have all heard the stories of the guy who wins the lotto
and 5 years later he's back at the bottom. Anyways, add Social Types to
the list of controversial Genetic Factors we are watching as our data
grows.

Social Hierarchy
Jordan Peterson speaks alot on social or dominance hierarchies and how
they have been around for millions of years. The point he is trying to
get across is that social hierarchies are not man-made or some
conspiracy from a political party to keep others down. Whenever there is
a large number of a particular species, they tend to organize themselves
into dominance hierarchies. Our internal chemicals are wired to respond
to this social order. We can not "fight out" every little disagreement
to the death. Rather, we respect those who are above us in order to keep
a more productive society at large.

Tony Robbins has discovered that the key to true happiness is growing
and giving. When you really listen to what he teaches you can see that
he is referring to growing and giving in the social hierarchy. If/when
you are bettering yourself, you will then naturally start to give from
abundance to others. When you are helping others, this naturally puts
you in a place that is above them. The more you truly grow and give, the
more you naturally move up the hierarchy. The reverse is also true. The
more a person is stuck and taking, the more they fall down the social
hierarchy. There seems to be a few factors that contribute to the social
hierarchy.

Growing and giving is one, and growth and fixed mindset would be another
one. Others include social skills, attractiveness, intelligence, money,
etc. What you see alot of people do is get one of the factors that
contribute to climbing the social hierarchy, and then just over work
that one. For example, the models on social media might have the good
looks and the money to buy an expensive car, and then they just triple
down on showing those off. This gets them lots of followers and a higher
status socially. Of course, because they also don't have the other
factors (good character, intelligence, growing, giving, etc) they come
crashing down sometime later. Like wolves and monkeys, humans are also a
social hierarchy driven species. This universal force directs us so much
that it is easy to overlook it in the day to day of life.

Social Norm
Out of 100 people, what is seen as normal, average, behavior? The
comments or thumbs up ratio on a social media post is a good way to get
an idea where the social norm is on a subject. Many people see
themselves a certain way, but are not taking in account how they look
compared to 100 other people. For example, we see alot of Extroverts
saying how Introverted they are. This is very true in a subjective
sense. This person is often tired, they have a deep inner world,
possibly a double Masculine world, and don't like people... But,
compared to 100 other people, they are far more talkative, high energy,
and Extroverted than 95% of other people. When self typing, almost
everyone forgets to look at the social norm (average of 100 other
people) and then compare themselves to everyone else from an honest,
outside perspective. This is one of the biggest reasons why we type
people with trained Operators and not Self Typing Tests.

Social Roles
Abstractly speaking, there are a certain number of roles and we all get
assigned a role. For example, in a high school class setting, there will
always be the class clown. When that clown finally gets kicked out,
someone else will rise up and fill that role. In any given social
situation, there will always be the leader, the close supporters of the
leaders, the followers, the rebels, the clowns, the rivals, a love
interest, etc. Just like how movie producers have a certain number of
characters (Archetypes) to fill and the movie is not good if there is a
character missing. What is interesting is, these roles can be moveable.
For example, look at those relationships where both people have traits
in common and therefore one of them is forced to grow and play the
opposite role. This person is in a sort of Forced Alpha situation where
they have to do their Demons to survive. This forces growth but it also
causes alot of constant drain and frustration. Your tribe really does
bring out the best (or worst) in you.

Social Types
As mentioned above in Social Classes, we are starting to see what
Gregory Clark is seeing in his data, and that is a genetic factor in the
Social Hierarchy. There are some people who are intensely interally
driven to climb to the top of the social ladder, and there are some who
are more externally motivated and surround themselves with people who
can inspire them. Some prefer to specialize and perfect their craft,
while others prefer to generalize so they can systematize their own
business from A to Z. We want to believe that these exceptional traits
are caused by freewill, good or bad parenting, income, schooling, health
food, anything. There are hundreds of contributing factors, but one of
the biggest ones that keeps coming up if you dig for it, is genetics.
Most of these driven types have been talking like this since they were 2
years old. So far, in trying to define terms here, we are using the 4
traits of Generalizing vs Specializing, and Self vs Tribe Motivated.
These variables seem to follow the same "math" as the Sexual
Modalities.

Number 1, Often unsatisfied until they hold the boss, executive, chief
of staff position.
These types tend to be high in Self Motivation and Generalizing but low
in Specializing and Tribe Motivation.
Traits: Driven, works for legacy, has to be the best of all time,
delegates, competitive, driven to be finacially free.

Number 2, Often called executive assistants, team players, superstars.
These types tend to be high in Generalizing and Tribe Motivation but low
in Self Motivation and Specializing.
Traits: Owners, entrepreneurs, low work life balance, project driven,
teamwork, wants a commission or compounding percentage for payment.

Number 3, Often called technicians, specialists, workforce.
These types tend to be high in Specializing and Self Motivation but low
in Tribe Motivation and Generalizing.
Traits: Job security, trades work for money, works by the clock, highly
skilled at what they specialize in, pride in work, wants work life
balance to be real.

Number 4, Often called helpers, contractors, seasonal workers, runners.
These types tend to be high in Tribe Motivation and Specializing but low
in Generalizing and Self Motivation.
Traits: Family and friends first, caring, easy going, lives day to day,
jack of all trades, frugal, superstitious, often get very into video
games and playing the Lotto.

Socionics
Socionics, like the Myers-Briggs, is a modification of Carl Jung's
original 8 Functions. Also like the Myers-Briggs, Socionics is
considered a pseudoscience personality system due to its lack of
scientific validity. The OP system was inspired by Socionics in part
because of its attempt to work towards scientific measurability. The OP
system has adopted the 4 Quadras of Socionics.

Solitary Confinement
Research shows that when people are put in a dark hole and left alone
with no human contact, they start to go mad in a very short amount of
time. It does not take years, it's more like days, weeks, or months.
The lesson we pull from this is, we are all on a spectrum of "solitary
confinement" to some degree. The Covid lockdowns predictably caused the
mental health decline of millions of people in some way shape or form.
The kid who locks himself in the basement and plays video games for 18
hours a day, becomes mentally, emotionally, and socially retarded. The
tech person that lives in full time NT/ST becomes deprived of emotional
processing and connection. The Fe-church lady that is overly emotional,
has a deficiency in the NT, etc. So, we are all in some sort of
"solitary confinement" trapped inside our own minds. There are 8
Functions, and we are totally starved of most of them in some way. So
it's no surprise we often feel like a prisoner being trapped and
tormented.

Someday
"Someday I'm going to have alot of money, a family, build a business,
get in shape, help others, and travel the world." The Child identity
has the default Pain Equation that says today is painful and hard but
the future is somehow going to be easy and awesome. The Adult knows the
truth. Ten years from now you are going to have more problems, less
energy, and failing health. If you can't do it now, you sure as hell
can't do it later. The only easy day was yesterday.

SP (Myers Briggs)
In their system this refers to the ISFP, ESFP, ISTP, ESTP.

Spank Me
This is a phenomenon we started to see in our old RC airplane community
and see it alot more in this community. Some people know they are doing
bad, know they are undisciplined, and want a Mommy figure to yell at
them. "I know I suck alright! Just tell me how bad I am! Punish me!"
The person seems to accept and has given up on trying to discipline
themselves. Therefore they are seeking any kind of external motivation
they can. Negative energy from an authority figure puts their body in an
adrenaline state so they can therefore now move. This trait seems to
cluster in the #4 Social Types.

Specialist
Putting in the time to get really good at a set of skills for the sake
of not being good at others. This might be a trait that some people are
born with higher in than others. Those that have this trait high, seem
to value working hard in a specific area so they earn the right to have
security. The traditional workforce that tends to value things like;
working only 9-5, having a 401k, insurance, 2 weeks vacation, holidays
off, retirement plan, etc." Responsibility for everything else and even
friendship take a back seat over job security. Though, we are seeing
that people who specialize tend to also have Flexing high. They love to
show off their skill they have gotten so good at. This trait seems to be
very "ISTJ" like, though we see people across the 512 personality
spectrum having this trait. Dave Ramsey and Dr Phil are both examples of
people who specialize and value job security.

Spectrum
Most of the time this is referring to comparing an individual on the
spectrum of thousands of other people. Most people don't consider the
spectrum when trying to type themselves. They give a Self-Report about
how they do and don't do XYZ. They rarely (almost never) consider,
know, or care to see how they are compared to 100 other people. For
example, oftentimes lead Consumes will type themselves as Demon Consume
because from their self report they are "not good at Consume." What
they are not seeing, compared to 100 other people on the spectrum, they
are in the top 90% when it comes to actually doing Consume in a Savior
state.

ST
Anyone with Savior S and T (Si/Ti, Ti/Si, Ti/Se, Se/Ti, Si/Te, Te/Si,
Se/Te, Te/Se).

Stacking
Introverted Functions "stack" where Extroverted Functions collect,
gather, or pile up. For example, Fi will stack up good and bad emotions
over time. When an Fi is hurt, it will remember that, and then stack on
every little thing to further reinforce that pain. Ti will figure out
how gears work, and then start to stack their ability to build more and
more complex gear systems. Si will stack information or physical things,
and then continue to copy/paste that format. The format of a glossary is
an example of Si stacking, each module is repeated over and over. Ni
will stack patterns by seeing the same pattern everywhere. For example,
when you first discover the Pareto 80/20 Principle, you then see it
everywhere and start to build on that understanding over time.

Standard Myers Briggs 16 Types
Someone who's Savior Functions are their 1st and 2nd Functions. In
contrast to the Jumpers who's Savior Functions are their 1st and 3rd.
See Types, 16.

Standards
Most often used by Adults to keep themselves accountable from slipping
back into Savior/Demon addictions and tidalwaves. Some examples are; "I
will not trip over the same thing twice, I will not go to bed angry or
sad, I will not feel stuck longer than 20 minutes, I will follow through
with what I say, I will always be on time, I will always get my 3
Wheelbarrows done, etc."

Standard vs Jumper
A place where we see the Grant Function Stack playing out is with
Standard vs Jumper Types. Take for example, Dave's type of
MF-Ni/Fi-SB/P(C) compared to Owen Cook's type of MF-Ne/Fi-CP/B(S). Both
types have Masculine Fi as their second Savior and Double Activated
Feminine Te as their 3rd Demon. Owen's Fi is in the 2nd spot on the
Function Stack and Dave's Fi is 3rd. So the question is, is Owen's Fi
stronger than Daves and is Dave's Te stronger than Owen's? From what
we are seeing at scale, the answer is yes. If you have the same Function
as someone else, and yours is one spot higher on the Function Stack, it
will be more powerful.

Stand in Front of the Laser
A phrase that we use that refers to someone jumping in front of
negativity that was not intended for them. Sometimes phrased, "jump in
front of the cannon". For example; you are driving with some friends
and mutter to yourself, "Man, there is alot of traffic, we shouldn't
have gone this way." The person next to you "jumps in front of the
laser" and says something like, "I know alright, I'm a horrible
person and you hate me!" A person is feeling internally insecure and
they are just looking for something or someone to blame it on.

Staring at the Sun
This is a vague, abstract, personal analogy we sometimes use. What it
refers to is how bad we (humans) are sometimes at the task we are trying
to do, but if we do the simpler task just to the side of it, we can
succeed. For example, everyone screws up their first Function because
they are trying to do it too much (staring at it all day). Yet, we all
do our middle Functions in a very balanced way because without trying.
The point we are trying to say is, sometimes when you over commit to
something you just screw it up and hurt yourself. Relax, don't care,
and be in an even flow state and you can see much better.

Status Game
Unconsciously using Saviors only to find Shortcuts to cheat their way up
the Social Hierarchy. The kid on social media wearing a swimsuit, posing
in front of a sports car in order to get views is an example. People on
social media who desperately beg for Likes and Subscribes without
providing any real value to the tribe. The Child who is pre Hero's
Journey is going to be playing the status game only. Money, popularity,
parties, respect, status. Like eating lots of candy, the more one plays
the status game, the more they feel empty inside.

Stole Your Lunch
When a person is lazy and doesn't do a task so someone else jumps in
and takes that opportunity, and therefore moves up the Social Hierarchy.

Stories
Most often referring to what most people do when they get together for a
social gathering. There is an unspoken game to see who can tell the best
story. Some people will try and tell the best story by playing the
biggest victim. While others show off something they know or did. This
is great and all, but where it can become a problem is when this gets
old. It's ten years later and the same people are still telling the
same stories.

Street Sign Head
A tall shaped head that resembles a NO PARKING sign. Oftentimes this
head shape clusters around lead Ti, mostly ISTPs, and some INTJs. Shan
says that Dave has a street sign head.

Stuck
The feeling of being stuck in life, from what we see, if caused by one
not using their Demons. For example, why can someone else of another
type, NOT be stuck if they were in the same situation? Often those that
decide to not be a Victim and set Standards in their life, adapt the
phrase, "I'm never stuck". Then work backwards from this knowledge
the next time they are feeling stuck.

Stuck in a Gear
When a person uses only their Savior Functions and refuses to use their
Demons in appropriate situations. The Deciders (IxxPs and ExxJs) can
move back and forth in the Observations (Double Observe), but they
become "stuck in a gear" when it comes to Decisions (Double Deciding,
seeing the good and bad in self and others. This produces Bipolar type
tendencies because of the refusal to jump back and forth between
Thinking and Feeling, their point of view and the point of view of
others. People are either "all good, or all bad" for the Decider who
is stuck in a gear (not Double Deciding). The Observers (IxxJs and
ExxPs) become "stuck in a gear" when it comes to seeing all of the
Observations. Either they are doing too much gathering without narrowing
down, or too much building of control without updating with new. This
ADD/OCD type behavior produces extreme swings of anxiety and panic
attacks. Situations are either "totally free" or "totally
controlling".

Subjective
Something that is subjective can not be measured, defined, or repeated
by other people. When something is a matter of opinion, a preference, or
just a point of view, it is subjective. Just because someone says it,
believes it, argues it, and says others are wrong, does not make it
objectively truthful (true for everyone everywhere). For example, in the
personality space, people will say they are an "INFJ" because that
resonates with them. This cannot be proven, disproven, checked, defined,
measured, verified, etc in any way. Something that is subjectively true,
is true to this one person, from their point of view, at this time.
Something that is objectively true is true for all people all of the
time.

Subjective Functions
Another name for Introverted Functions.

Subjective Goals
Subjective goals are more of a "we'll see how it goes, wishlist".
Everyone wants to get in shape, build their business, better themselves,
find a partner, have meaning in life, etc. Most people are unable to
make any real progress over time because all of the goals they are
setting are subjective. They are only going off of how they feel at the
moment with no outside accountability. There are no clear definitions,
timeframes, or way to objectively measure progress. No one on the
outside can help hold them accountable. When things get hard, the person
just drops the subjective goal and picks another one.

Subjective Life
The default state of humans is to simply avoid pain and seek pleasure. A
person living a subjective life is always doing what makes sense to
them. We refer to this as Default Programs, Addiction to Saviors, and
Townsfolk Land. The subjective life is what we are all born into. Do
more of your Saviors, run from your Demons, and come up with a story
that you believe to justify it. A person living a subjective life will
always move away from contracts, being a person of their word,
commitment, accountability, etc.

Subjective Typing
Claiming to be a certain personality type with no consistent way to
define, measure, verify, or reproduce consistent results. Most people
falsely believe that if they "Resonate" or "relate" to a certain
trait or personality type, this must be their "Best Fit Type". The
problem with this, is most people are wildly off when trying to type
themselves. You may see yourself correctly, but just think for a moment
of all the super delusional people in your life. Subjective typing
quickly breaks down at scale, and this is what science has been pointing
out for decades. Questions to consider when you see people subjectively
typing are: How are you defining your terms? How can others follow the
same procedure as you and get the same results? Do you have any kind of
measurable data we can look at? Are 100% of people of your same type
having the exact same predictable Tidalwaves as you? If you want to
start Objective Typing, we suggest starting a Batting Average.

Sucker in the Room
The full phrase is often used by Mark Cuban of SharkTank and goes, "If
you can't see the sucker in the room, it's you." Going back to the
concept of a limited number of social archetypes we all play. Meaning,
if there are 10 people in a room, there is naturally going to be someone
at the top and someone at the bottom. The older I get in business, the
more I see this happening in every single meeting. There is an objective
job that needs to get done, and some people are willing to do it while
the others just want to avoid pain and hijack this task for a quick
Saviors/ego grab. In order to get the task done, the responsible ones
tell the sucker what they want to hear, in order to avoid drama. See
Telling People What They Want To Hear.

Survival Mode
The body's reaction to a continuous high stress environment. Stress
chemicals increase and the brain starts to rewire to just try and make
it through the day. Joy and long term planning evaporate and impulsive
coping takes over. Symptoms include: loss of focus, disrupted memory,
manic swings, fatigue, disrupted sleep, loss of self care, coping,
addictions, etc. In the context of Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs, the
person is towards the bottom, just struggling to breathe and survive.
Survival Mode, Panic Attacks, Fight or Flight, and Fixed Mindset all
seem to be on a spectrum opposite of Abundance, the Scientific Method,
and Growth Mindset.

Survivors Guilt
See Alone in the World.

Susan David
We typed Susan David as a FM-Te/Si-BS/C(P). She grew up in a really
tough environment in South Africa and had to endure many extreme
hardships. She has developed some of the most clarity and consciousness
we've seen when it comes to not giving into your triggers. She teaches
that in between all our painful reactions, there is a space where we can
choose to go along with our default programs or not. For herself, she
stops and asks who she wants to be, and what values she'd like to have.
As a FM, ExxJ, with Play last, she is naturally going to be extremely
triggered and emotionally dramatic when it comes to people doing her
wrong. Not many types are going to have people issues worse than her.
Yet somehow, she has trained herself to see and separate from her
default programs under times of stress. If you are Savior Fe follow
Byron Katie, and if you are Savior Te follow Susan David.

System (Systematize)
Taking something you have to do alot and building a step by step process
for it. The goal of a good system is taking a frustrating task that
takes you an hour to do, and breaking it down into smaller steps that
only take a few minutes each. McDonalds, Ford, and Amazon are some of
the best in the world at systematizing a process. Don't think of your
laundry, dishes, yard work, cleaning the house, washing your car, or
even your job as one large, overwhelming task. Break things way down
into small Si steps and just do a few at a time. A system is Oi so it's
personal and you have to struggle building your own systems. You can
take ideas from E-Myth, Tim Ferriss, and Sam Carpenter, but ultimately
you have to struggle with it for months just to get your damn laundry
systematized. But when you do, you have some experience to move up the
ladder and start to systematize higher things.

K
undefined

Karen
Referring to memes on the internet that are typically a middle-aged
woman yelling at some random citizen about a small trivial issue. The
joke, it's just some normal person doing some normal task and the Karen
sees this average citizen as a dangerous Narcissist. We see a strong
clustering of "Karens" having these traits: ExxJ, Masculine-De, and
Extroverted. The Karens seem to break down into two types: The Te-ExxJs
and the Fe-ExxJs. The Te-ExxJs are the ones that are hammering someone
in the tribe for "doing it wrong". The person is barbecuing at the
park, using the wrong parking spot, asking them to wear a mask, etc. The
drama is about someone doing something that is making the Karen feel not
good enough, offended, controlled, belittled, etc. The Te-Karen
"defends" her offended baby Fi-and goes on the Te-attack. The Fe-ExxJ
are the ones that throw themselves on the ground and scream for help.
They create an emotional drama trying to alert the tribe to the
"abuse" that they are going through. This "Karen" behavior is normal
and typical to all ExxJ, De types. It's just funny because someone
actually caught it on video. But we all have a De in our life that goes
through this. As funny as it is to laugh at them, it is also an insight
into what everyone is going through. All types have something "crazy"
that is hard for them.

Keep Going
An inspirational phrase we got from the BUDS Class 234 documentary. The
NAVY SEAL instructors were helping the recruits learn that when you are
absolutely broken, spent, empty, and can't go anymore, that you can
choose to keep going. It's an identity and conscious choice to win no
matter how bad it gets. When you're going through Hell, if you lay down
and give into the pain, it will only get so much worse. But if you keep
going you will eventually make it through and it will be worth it a
million times over.

Kick Them
Referring to how the other person has to "kick" the mumbly Introverted
person to talk. Most often with the Blast lasts, the game is to say so
little and leave so many voids that the other person has to be "the bad
guy" and keep asking follow up questions:
"Hey, how did the meeting go?"
"Fine."
"Ok, did you get that thing done alright?"
"Meh."
"Well, do we need to go back and do it again or is it going to work?"
(Now the person has to lay out multiple choice questions for them to
grunt at).
"It's fine."
"Ok, fuck you, I'll ask someone else who was at the meeting then!"
"I didn't do anything. Why is everyone so mean to me for no reason?"

Kicking the Dog
Taking repressed anger out on someone else. Most people have unresolved
processed fear, anger, hurt, depression, and anxiety below the surface.
Sometimes all you have to do is walk in the room and the person unloads
on you. They are not being responsible to solve their anger issues so
they just let unconscious blow ups keep happening.

Kid Crying in their Bedroom
Referring to unedited YouTube videos of a young person who is all in on
their Saviors and blaming their Demons. This phrase is often brought up
in the context of the Typing Procedure. On one end of the spectrum you
have an actor in a movie who is heavily edited and is just saying lines
that someone else wrote. This situation obviously makes it very hard to
type this person. On the other end of the spectrum are the easiest
people to type, and that is kids crying in their bedroom. The reason for
this is they usually have hours of footage spanning back several years.
They are also in an honest state and are pouring their heart out. They
are young, all in on their Saviors, and are unashamed to just blatantly
blame their Demons for all their problems. As people get older they
learn not to blatantly blame their Demons so they unconsciously come up
with long complicated stories to try and mask the simplicity of their
blame. Older people take longer to type than a kid crying in their
bedroom because of all the layers they have built up over time.

Kinesthetic
Tester and Kinesthetic are on a coin with each other. This means
everyone has both modalities but one is more dominant than the other.
Those with Masculine Sensory have Kinesthetic as their first (MM) or
second (MF) modality. This modality has to deal with spatial awareness,
weight, momentum and the movement of things. In ancient times, this
modality was useful for picking up a heavy spear, knowing where to hold
it, how to throw it, and where to throw it as an animal is running at a
high rate of speed. See Sexuals for how this connects to the Functions.

Know-It-All
A phrase that is usually referring to the Consume Last types, though all
types exhibit this behavior at times. "I already know that, I know what
you're going to say, I don't need to hear anymore, let me tell you
about it actually..." This seems to come from an extreme feeling of
"being full" and not wanting to take in new information. When people
are hurt or disagree with the information, they will also shove it away
and use the excuse that they already know.

L
undefined

Labels
Usually referring to one of the primary fears of the ENFPs, specifically
the Ne/Ti's. With Demon Fe and Si, they fear and hate being put inside
some physical box or label by the tribe. An example of this is Jordan
Peterson's strong resistance to the government trying to put identity
labels into law. Jordan is a supporter of the LGBTQ+ community, but is
against any person or group trying to make it a law to use this word or
that word. It may not be the same specific example as Jordan's, but all
ENTPs hate and fight against social labels or paperwork restrictions in
some way.

Last Animal
A person's last Animal (4th Animal) is where they are leaving the
biggest void in their life. A person's last Animal, may or may not be
their 4th Animal in their Animal Stack. Everyone has two Savior Animals
and two Demon Animals. The last Animal is the Demon Animal that is the
farthest down in their Savior/Demon order. So for example, Dave has
Consume as his last (or 4th Animal) and Shan has Blast as her last
Animal. The last Animal seems to feel like even more of a blindspot than
the last Function. Problems build up because just like the last
Function, a person is unconscious and therefore not responsible for
their last Animal. When it comes to self growth, we are seeing that
setting goals forces you to use your last Function and last Animal.
These seem to be the two spots that really cause the build up of the
life tidalwaves.

Last Function
A person's last Function (4th Function) is where they feel the most
triggered. Some people freak out when you run your fingernails across a
chalkboard, and some do not. In the same way, we all seemed to be wired
to freaking out when we experience negativity in our 4th Function. So
picture the last Function as where your freak out wiring is connected
to. You may be good at your last Function, you may be Double Activated
there, you may love to Peacock and brag about all the growth you've
done there, but it is still the only place you can get triggered. You
are unable to freak out using your 1st Function or the balanced two in
the middle. Only the 4th Function can be triggered, freak out, and feel
alot of unfair pain. We don't mind using our 4th Function for
positivity when we want to. The freak out comes when we are "forced"
in an "unfair way" to experience negativity that we "don't
deserve". A person's last Function may or may not be their Hardest
Function.

Latest and Loudest
This is a phrase we got from David Allen and is referring to the
anti-productivity habits of responding to distractions. People won't
set conscious objective goals because they can't turn off the Saviors
vs Demons war inside their minds. This leaves them in a very reactionary
state and therefore they just respond to whatever triggers them in the
moment. They are always trapped in a loop of always checking the news or
the latest drama in a Facebook Group.

Leaves
Attacking insignificant small parts but never going after the core. This
happens with self growth where people will waste time on the current
small problems in life and not address the core issues. This also
pertains to the Typing Procedure where people will latch onto anecdotes
out of context and never actually take the time to deeply download the
core patterns.

Leaving the Planet
A phrase we use to paint some contrast between those that are Savior
Sensory vs Intuition. People with Savior Sensory don't "leave the
planet" and talk too long about ungrounded theories that can't be
proven or backed up in any way. Sensory types are responsible to keep
things grounded and make sure they are provable. Sensory types will use
analogies, but they will not violate the rule that they must keep their
points grounded. They are responsible to make sure they don't come
across as too theoretical or "woo-woo". Only the Intuitive types (some
far more than others) are the ones that will eventually start talking
crazy talk. They will go too far into theory land and start making
guesses, assumptions, and summaries that are not backed up by facts. On
the Social Spectrum, people will start to step back and look at them
weird because it feels like they are leaving the planet (not staying
grounded).

Lemmings
The phrase is usually, "Unconscious people are like Lemmings marching
into the Wood Chipper." Most people are so unconscious, most of the
time, they can't even see that they are doing the same stupid shit
everyone else is also doing. See Wood Chipper.

Letters
Refers to two Observing Letters of Intuition (N) and Sensing (S) and the
two Deciding Letters of Feeling (F) and Thinking (T) . Also see Myers
Briggs Letters.

Letting Go
Most people go to their dying day never letting go of their convoluted,
out of context, collection of false beliefs and victim stories. We refer
to this as Santa Claus Bags and Winchester Mystery House brain. Every
time you try to answer one false belief, ten more pop up, all of which
are never resolved. The letting go process is when someone gets old
enough to see the "math" or the recurring pattern that they are the
common factor in their life causing the problems. Rather than demanding
that every one of their problems and questions be answered before they
move on, they simply let go of it all. All at once the decades worth of
bad stories are all let go and a new identity of forgiveness,
acceptance, and responsibility is taken on.

LGBTQ+
(LGBTQIA2S+) An acronym that non-heterosexual people use to identify
themselves. See Gender Spectrum.
L: Lesbian; a homosexual female who is exclusively sexually attracted to
other females.
G: Gay; usually referring to a homosexual male who is exclusively
sexually attracted to other males.
T: Transgender; when a person's gender identity does not conform to
their assigned sex at birth (male in a female's body for example).
B: Bisexual; when a person is sexually attracted to both males and
females.
Q: Queer/Questioning; an umbrella term for people who are not
heterosexual or cisgender (gender identity corresponds with their sex at
birth).
I: Intersex; an umbrella term used to describe a variety of combinations
of chromosomes, hormones, internal sex organs, and genitals that differ
from the expected patters of male or female.
A: Asexual; a person with a lack or low level of romantic attraction for
others.
2S: Two Spirit; refers to a person who identifies as having both a
masculine and a feminine spirit.
+: Everything and everyone else that is in some way, shape, or form not
fitting into the traditional heterosexual identity.

Liar Words
A form of Cognitive Dissonance where a person truly believes what they
are saying about themselves even through it is not objectively true.
This is very common with people going through the Video Typing process.
This phrase is also used when someone of bad character is trying to
convince others to trust them. This phrase is also used when teaching
others how to objectively type. People share their perceptions of
themselves, not their true selves. It's up to you to judge their words
against their state, life pile, role they play in the tribe, results,
etc. Out of laziness, most people just believe everyone's liar words,
which is why they are so shocked when they find out this person is not
who they said they were.

Life Pile
What a person is doing more of compared to the Social Norm. ExxPs tend
to have collected more things or information on a subject than anyone
else. IxxJs tend to narrow down and over control something more than
anyone else. ExxJs tend to kill themselves, caring about the opinion of
others more than any else. IxxPs tend to go all in on their point of
view and not back down more than anyone else, etc. What we look for when
typing someone, is we ask ourselves (not them), "What is this person
doing more than everyone else and not even know it?" If they are Savior
Se/Fi, they may have a hundred pairs of shoes. If they are Fi/Ni, they
may have deeply, stacked emotions against people. Everyone has some sort
of life pile, and some are easier to see than others.

Like and Subscribe
An example of a Child playing the Status Game is all the YouTubers that
beg for likes and subscribes. Before ever giving any real value, they
already are grabbing for themselves. This is very opposite of Gary
Vaynerchuk's advice which is to give, give, give, and then ask. Asking
for likes and subscribes is not the problem, it's the identity of the
Taker who is always looking to take for self at the expense of others.
The likes and subscribe game is just one of a million places you can see
a person's identity through their actions.

Limiting Beliefs
A phrase popularized by Tony Robbins and refers to the limits we put on
ourselves. We are all Fixed Mindset in some areas of life. A past pain
traumatized us, we weren't able to overcome it, and now this has
scarred us internally. Even though many other people see this challenge
as solvable, this is one area we are going all in on as unsolveable. We
do see that a person's limiting beliefs are in alignment with their
type. Deciders feel stuck with people, Observers feel stuck with things,
etc. See Fears.

Lizards, Glass
Referring to a type that appears to be one type but is actually another.
See Glass Lizard.

Lizards, Orange-Blue-Yellow
Referring specifically to videos on the Common Side Blotched Lizard.
These lizards are an example of the Paper Scissor Rock effect in nature.
The orange lizards are the bigger brutes who defend their territory and
mate with many females. The smaller, sneaky yellows beat the orange
lizards because they dart in and mate with one of the neglected females
because the oranges can't watch them all. The blues beat the yellows
because the blues are monogamous and can't be fooled by the sneaky
yellows. What keeps them in check forever is the females prefer
whichever color is the most rare that year. We use this example to
illustrate what we see playing out in the real world. For example, in
the UFC most guys are Savior Se. When a lead Ni comes in (if they are
not killed off immediately) they can cause quite an upset to the pack.
See GSP Effect and Rare Types.

Loaded
When a person can't listen or update to new information because they
are too loaded with their internal negative story. See Letting Go. When
you hang around a loaded person too long they will eventually bubble up
their unprocessed trauma and drama. If you watch your friends and
family, they will all follow this basic outline:
1) Bait the victim in with simple facts out of context. It will seem
like an "accident" or "misunderstanding" at first, but they will
start off small with some facts that are slightly twisted. You of course
will fall for it (as you do every time) and think that you just need to
be helpful and clear things up!
2) Talk over the victim when they try to explain themselves. As you are
trying to solve the first misunderstanding, they then start hitting you
out of left field with a bunch of other random "contradictions". So
fast, they have you on the defensive and your very character is now in
question. They have activated full Hijacker mode and every minute this
goes on, things are going to be worse for you tomorrow.
3) Channel change, stun the victim, and force-feed the loaded agenda.
Just when you think things couldn't get any crazier, they then erupt
with their drama-agenda. The same old story they vomit all over everyone
and have been for years. It doesn't matter where the conversation
started, it always ends up here. Same old story about how someone
wronged them, and if they/you would just do this (insert demands here)
then everything would be just fine (see Panic State). But because you
don't bow to their simple problem/solution view of things, you are now
a bad guy too. Watch any videos of Ted Cruz or Matt Geatz questioning
someone.

Lobsters
Jordan Peterson teaches that when lobsters are defeated by another
lobster, that their serotonin and dopamine levels change. These are the
same brain chemicals that affect humans with depression. When a person
undergoes an intense trauma and they can't process or overcome it, the
amygdala gland grows and the hippocampus shrinks. We see this linked to
what Growth and Fixed Mindset is talking about. A strong hippocampus is
producing more of a growth mindset where the person sees problems as
solvable. A scared, shrunken, defeated hippocampus sees the world in a
fixed mindset, where problems are scary and not solvable. The major
lesson that Jordan Peterson teaches here is that if you get defeated,
your brain is designed to keep you down in order to keep the Social
Hierarchy. The winner is given the reward of higher serotonin and
dopamine levels, so therefore they feel more empowered to conquer more.
The defeated person is given less positive chemicals and more negative
chemicals, so they now have more feelings and reasons to shrink back,
stay down, and not try again. This is why we see part of the process of
getting out of depression is fighting back. See Bullies.

Lone Survivor
Referring to the 2013 movie of four NAVY SEALS who got overrun by the
Taliban. A huge battle ensued and only one SEAL survived (Marcus
Luttrell). It's an inspiring true story of courage, teamwork, and never
giving up even in the worst conditions humanly possible.

Lookalikes
One of the most interesting factors in the OP system is that people of
the same type often look alike. Not everyone of the same type looks
alike, but there is a clustering pattern. Factors that need to be
considered are age, race, nationality, diet, and mental health. The more
of these factors you have in common with someone, the more likely there
is a clustering of people of your same type that look like you. Also,
people can look like their "cousin types.''. For example, a lot of
the traits we see in the Te/Se types also show up in the Te/Ne and Se/Te
types. Physical traits seem to be broken down into specific parts. For a
general example, "Extroverts" tend to have a bigger mouths with
upturned eyes, while "Introverts" have downturned eyes and a smaller
jaw line. We need to get at least 100 people typed (male and female) of
each of the 512 types before we can really start classifying and
defining what we are seeing at scale. For now, we can just say that
types and looks are very much connected in our system.

Looks Like Game
Not using the Typing Procedure and just assuming someone is a certain
type because they look like someone of a known type.

Looping
Usually referring to an old personality community myth that says
something along the lines of; being in a toxic state, "looping" back
and forth between the two Introverted Functions. From our point of view,
there is some validity to this. We also would say that when someone (any
type) gets stuck in their inner world, that this becomes very toxic.
Everyone has Introverted Functions, and everyone falls into their dark
inner world at times. It also makes a big difference if a person's two
Introverted Functions are Masculine, Feminine, NF, ST, SF, NT, Savior,
or Demon. Also worth noting, that people may also be seeing and
referring to people that are Savior Sleep. For example, many reports on
the internet say something along the lines of, "This INFP is in a Fi/Si
loop". It may very well be that they are just seeing a Sleep-INFP
(Fi/Si).

Losing God
Many people that grew up believing in God do start to lose their faith
as they get older. What used to be attributed to God (answers to prayer,
strong feelings of conviction, miracles, etc) are now understood to be
psychological forces, statistics, and basic science. The same
"unexplainable" events that are happening to a person in one religion,
are happening to everyone else of different belief systems. We
personally see that everyone we know who believes in God outsources
their Demons to the spiritual world. When we were Christians we did the
same thing and kept throwing our responsibilities of our Demons to God
or blaming the devil. Losing God is like losing your best friend and for
most people takes about a year to recover from.

Luck
We used to think that luck had very little to do with how a person's
life turned out. After studying the life story of so many people and
seeing just how many variables are actually at play, we have changed our
views. Yes, hard work, taking charge of your life, etc is how we can all
produce good things in our lives. But there are so many factors that we
can not control, such as; when and where you were born, the kind of
parents you had, how much abuse you went through, birth defects,
accidents, crime, your personality type, health issues, etc. Some people
are just dealt a really bad deck of cards and there was nothing they
could do about it. This statistical realization is a factor we use to
have thankfulness for all the things we do have. We try to live life
like we have Freewill, but know that the math says that almost
everything is really out of our control.

M
undefined

Man Book
The real name of this book is The Way of the Superior Man, by David
Deida. Much of Owen Cook's teachings are centered around the concepts
of this book. These concepts apply to everyone, not just a male and
female relationship. The general message is you have to be a person on
your mission and not be in need of anyone else. You must put your
identity into your mission in life, and not another person. If you put
your needs into a person, you will only choke the life out of them with
endless Bitch Testing. This concept is also what people high up on the
Social Hierarchy are doing. They have settled themselves, are full and
thankful on their own, don't need anyone, and are on a mission to give
out of love. Everyone else feels the non-need and abundance and follows
them.

Marty McFly Picture
An example of the Butterfly Effect in one's personal life. How are
today's seemingly insignificant actions causing a massive ripple effect
in your future? In the 1980s movie Back to the Future, the hero (Marty
McFly) had a picture in his pocket of himself and his brother and
sister. While he was going back in time and changing events he would
pull out this picture and see himself and his siblings start to
disappear. This was an interesting way of seeing how our foolish actions
(or lack of actions) erase the person we could have been 20 years from
now.

Masculine Functions
We all have two Masculine Functions and two opposite Feminine Functions.
So if your Feeling is Masculine, then your Thinking is Feminine, for
example. When a Function is Masculine, it becomes confident, shovey, and
disagreeable. We tend to fight with our Masculine Functions, even if
they are Demons. For example, Dave has Fem-Ni at the top but won't
shove, fight, or die on the patterns. He'll wait and stand his ground
on some Sensor fact that he knows is true. Shan is opposite, she has
Fem-Se but can't remember a damn thing. She will lock onto and fight on
"what she knows is going on" (Ni). So when typing people, look for
where someone's Masculine and Feminine Functions land.

Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs
We use the general concept of Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs in order to
prioritize the lower ended jobs first. We don't take Maslow's pyramid
too literally, but rather we use it to force ourselves to do the
foundational needs first. What we see in ourselves (and everyone) is we
all want to run to the top with our Saviors and only work on the big
things first. Our project will "change the world" after all and our
bodies are doped up on happy chemicals because we are using our Saviors
on this most important task. The problem is, even if you have the best
idea/mission ever, you can't get anything done because your pants are
falling down in all your lower areas. You're behind on bills, your car
has a flat tire, your family hates you, there are ants in the kitchen
again, and you're out of toilet paper.

What has been working for us is stacking 3 of these major concepts
together. First, we look at and decide who do we want to be in the
tribe? The Child who is living for the default Pain Equation? Or the
Adult that has a Mission and Meaning in life? Second, we look at the 50
things we need to get done today in order to become more of the Adult
and less of the Child... Then, we create a to-do list and write out our
Wheelbarrows and/or Time Blocks. We use the Wally Wallington method to
chip away slowly over time. Three months later, we have made progress in
all 50 areas. Prioritizing and building off the lower ones first so they
can support the higher ones.

Math
See Objective Math.

Matrix
he 1999 movie was originally made to show the control and "false
choice" that corporations and big government put on the people. This
movie hit the deep psyche of so many people that it is often used to
illustrate the "hidden truth" of many different worldviews. Meaning,
just about everybody feels like the world is a Matrix and the truth is
hidden from us. Using the OPS worldview, the "Matrix" would be the
Evolutionary genetic code that limits us to view reality though just one
of 512 perceptions. We all feel like there is more to reality (our other
Functions) but can't really put our finger on it. Our lives seem to
repeat the same stories and problems and no matter how hard we fight, we
just can't break the cycle. Choosing Consciousness and Responsibility
is the "Red Pill" in this analogy. Only through the Hero's Journey
will enough pressure be put on us to finally stop resisting our Demons.
And like any good movie, the irony of life is accepting the "good" and
"bad" and seeing that all is really one.

MBTI
Stands for the Myers Briggs Type Indicator.

Me against the world syndrome
The feeling that everyone has, but the Savior Di's (especially IxxPs)
feel this in a Savior State. For the De's, aligning with the tribe is
largely a good thing. For the Di, the more they agree with everyone, the
more they are not special so they have to sabotage tribe unity. For the
Savior Di's they are trying to be better than everyone in some way, but
they also have Demon De which wants to connect with everyone. We all
have competing programs inside us, and this is a good example. So the
Di's in some way, always feel like most people don't get them and they
are alone on their mission. They are not De-allowed to "dumb themselves
down" in order to connect with everyone.

Meaning
What is the meaning of life? People ask this question as if there is no
way to answer it. Anyone on a self growth journey is going to eventually
have to wrestle with this question for themselves. We are given default
answers to this question growing up from our family and culture. But
eventually, as you get older and start to go through the dark times
yourself, what truth are you going to fall back on? When you find
yourself in hell, why should you keep going?

For me, what I found is that our childish minds were asking flawed
questions. I was asking what the meaning of life is and then sitting
back and waiting for someone to give me an answer that resonated with
me. Give me an answer that moves my default, impulse chemicals that I'm
addicted to and think are true. Ok, what if I am not the standard of
truth? What if the truth is something that my mind and body hates?

So I started just observing and asking what has the Universe been doing
for billions of years without me? Well, there are trillions of organisms
on the planet, what the hell are they all doing? What is the "meaning
of life" for an ant, squirrel, dog, monkey, Ai, or Alien? Looking at
things from an outside perspective I began to see a simple answer that I
didn't like that much. They are just growing up, maybe doing something
beneficial to their family or species, passing that on, and then getting
out of the way for the next generation.

Maybe the meaning of life is not to fill my delusional, over active,
selfish, chemical addicted brain and body with "makes sense to me"
feelings? Maybe there is no "destination" like I want there to be?
Maybe there is no magic land where I just get to sit around and feel
good? Maybe that is just another chemical trick of my species to keep us
moving over the next mountain? Maybe, like all the animals, I'm just a
vehicle? Maybe I don't matter that much and I'm just here to pass
something on to the next guy like my parents generation did for me?

So what does make the human body/vehicle happy/meaningful? Well, you
might try what's working for millions of other people that have been
through hell and found a common answer. Doing what all the other animals
do, and that is just growing yourself into a better person and giving
from love and abundance to others. And no, your stupid body is not going
to like that or resonate with that at first. For me, I chose to stop
going in the same default circles and started to move myself towards
reality. I started to train myself to find happiness and pleasure in
just being another ant who is only here to help the other ants. Or stay
a depressed ego maniac, no one really cares about you either way.

Meh
A funny phrase that means I don't agree but I don't want to explain my
reasons to you. Often used by Blast last INFPs. For example, "Hey, do
you want to come with us on a beach trip?" "Meh".

MF
Stands for Masculine Sensory, Feminine Extroverted Decider. Has the
following modality order: Audio, Kinesthetic, Tester, Visual. See
Sexuals.

Michio Kaku
We typed Michio as a FF-Ne/Ti-CP/B(S), the same type as Jordan Peterson
and Gregory Clark. Unlike Peterson, Michio is a very happy, cheerful,
congruent guy. He doesn't get into arguments, get upset, or see the
world in a negative way. Like Bill Nye, he's been a very positive force
for science for many decades. We particularly like his views on
consciousness and see things very much the same way. The human mind
seems to be made up of hundreds of programs that interact with each
other. The more programs that are reflecting off each other, the more
the spectrum of consciousness starts to appear. As a true scientist,
Michio has recently changed his views regarding UFOs. He used to think
they were not visiting earth, but inlight of all the recent news, he
thinks that these crafts just might be alien.

Middlemen
The last place someone wants to get to is Rock Bottom where they are
finally consciously staring at how they are responsible for all the
recurring tidalwaves in their lives. Humans put as many layers, levels,
and middlemen between themselves and true reality. "My life is bad
because of the government, that guy, missing information, the devil,
God, the economy, etc." Unconsciousness and blame are what we hide
behind in order to not dial down our Saviors and start to see and take
responsibility for our Demons. A person's "middleman" is just
whatever person or thing they are currently using as an excuse to why
they are a victim in their lives.

Midwit Meme
This is an interesting meme that illustrates how on a bell curve of
intelligence, that the dumbest and smartest people often agree. The
average person is "too smart" to accept these ideas. For example, a
simple person says, "The Bible is the truth, I follow it!" The average
person (midwit) says, "The Bible is made by men, I don't follow it."
And the wise person says, "The Bible has alot of universal truths in
it, I follow it." Another example would be; a simple person says, "I
don't trust the vaccines!" The average midwit says, "I'm sure the
vaccines are fine." And the experienced doctor says, "I don't trust a
vaccine that has skipped the clinical trial phase." In a way, the 16
types fall into a midwit meme. Only a small percent of the population
believe the 16 types are real. Where most educated people in the middle
know the MBTI doesn't stand up to scientific testing. And then the CIA
uses the 16 types in their work.

Mike Rowe
The advice of Follow Your Passion has worked out for a few, but has left
many people disillusioned. Most people don't know what their passion is
and others have grown to hate their passion when things get hard. Mike
Rowe was the host of the long-lasting reality show on the Discovery
Channel called Dirty Jobs. We've typed Mike as a MF-Ti/Se-CP/S(B). The
show was about Mike showing up to some random dirty job in America and
working it for a day. Septic tank cleaners, pig farmers, rodent removal,
city street cleaners, etc. The jobs kept getting dirtier and dirtier.
The premise of the show was about all these non-glamorous jobs that
needed to be done and were being done by good people who actually
enjoyed what they did. All across America, people are finding passion
and purpose in some bullshit job that they somehow ended up in. What is
so great about Mike's message, is it shows the actual ST facts of how
NF happy people really are in some of the dirtiest jobs. You don't have
to be a famous rock star to be happy. There are good people and good
jobs in your podunk town that everyone else is passing up because they
are "below them".

Mike Tyson
We typed Mike as a MM-Se/Fe-PC/S(B). We grew up watching Mike and all
the drama he caused in real life. He had a hair-temper and was always in
and out of trouble. Most of the guys of his type (MM-Se/Fe) are known to
be tough and combative. Mike was the most respected boxer, but everyone
knew he was a pretty troubled guy. Combine that with his extreme
Blast-last way of talking, and no one could really connect to the guy or
figure him out. Fast forward to 2020 and we find him on the other side
of the Hero's Journey... to the extreme. Today, Mike helps others
process their hurt and anger and find inner peace. Mike has got to be
one of the greatest examples we've ever seen of the lesson of don't
give up on someone.

Mikey
(Pronounced Mike-eee) This is a nickname we use for male INTJs, most
often FF or MF and Ni/Te, Consume last. The reason is, most guys of this
type are a bit dorky and don't seem to care because they are so excited
to peddle their IxxJ Scam. A few examples would include Gavin Newsom,
Eric Berg, Bob Schrupp, and Dean Graziosi. The original "Mikey" was
actually a guy Dave new back in the RC airplane days. The funniest part
is, his name was not even Mikey, it was Will. What Will used to do is
hide under his work table and do a puppet show to peddle his RC
products. The puppet's name was Mikey.

Milgram Experiment
There have been several experiments, including ones conducted by Derren
Brown, that show people will abuse others in order to just go along and
follow orders. Time and time again, it's shown that if you grab 10
random people, within a short amount of time, you can get them to abuse,
even to the point of death, innocent people. All you have to do is mask
the torture under a light layer of "This is for science, it's all
legal, everyone else is doing it, you'll be outcast if you don't do
it" etc. The most dangerous people we see are those that refuse to see
this in themselves and others. It's the people that don't believe that
they are that bad that are the fastest ones to abuse others and not know
they are doing it. The people that are more safe, are the few that can
see and accept that when pushed, that they too would become a Nazi.

Mindset (Growth & Fixed)
The definitions and descriptions popularized by Carol Dweck of a Fixed
Mindset seem to overlap with our definitions of a Demon state: "I'm
the best or worst at this, this is too hard, it won't work, I'm stuck,
this is your fault, they are attacking me, I quit." The definitions of
a Growth Mindset overlap with a Savior state: "I'm just putting in my
reps, this is solvable, this is supposed to be hard, I'm going to have
to practice, I'm learning with each mistake, other people have done
this, I'll eventually get this." Everyone has Fixed and Growth
Mindsets in some areas, no one is 100% one or the other. The more
someone has a Growth Mindset, the higher up the Social Hierarchy they
climb. The more someone has a Fixed Mindset, the farther down they fall
in despair (Trauma Cycle). Where we see Fixed and Growth Mindset the
most, is when it comes to Single Deciding and Single Observing. See
Fixed and Growth.

Missing Information
All Observers in some way shape or form, are triggered by missing
information. It could be not finding their keys, losing their phone, not
knowing they have to fill out a form, not knowing which job to take,
being lost in the path of life, etc. Everyone struggles with missing
information, it's just that all Observers are going to be far more
Triggered than the Deciders in this issue. The Deciders will have
"missing information" when it comes to people. They will have a hard
time seeing both sides of themselves and others.

Mission
The Alphas speak of having a higher "mission" or purpose in order to
separate from Need and Savior addictions. They use Standards and
Objective Goals in order to move towards this mission. The key to having
a mission, is it has to be something that can never be taken away by
outside factors. For example, Viktor Frankl, while going through the
holocaust, found meaning in separating from the negativity and choosing
love and meaning. What he went through is an extreme example of how one
can be on a mission even when the entire world is against you. We choose
to follow what Tony Robbins teaches and that is to Grow and Give. This
mission is concrete enough that it can be broken down into endless
objective goals, as well as is abstract enough that hard times can ever
take that away from us. For example, OPS is a mission from us, but if
that ever gets taken away we don't care. We are always free to grow and
give anywhere else.

MM
Stands for Masculine Sensory, Masculine Extroverted Decider. Has the
following modality order: Kinesthetic, Audio, Visual, Tester. See
Sexuals.

Mob Mentality
Like chimps, humans have alot of built up suppressed energy and anger.
We all feel like we get taken advantage of and life is not fair. All it
takes is an angry mob where everyone else is causing destruction for us
to jump in. After all, we also feel wronged, and everyone is upset for a
good reason, and everything else is already destroyed, so I might as
well throw a few stones myself. It feels good to get your negative
energy out with the tribe, it's a powerful experience. What else are
you going to do? Work every night by yourself so you don't feel like a
victim? That's no fun.

Modalities
There are four modalities that are connected to the sexual Functions of
every type: Tester, Visual, Audio, Kinesthetic. Tester and Kinesthetic
are on a coin together (opposite of each other). Visual and Audio are on
a coin together (opposite of each other). Tester and Visual are both
Feminine, and Audio and Kinesthetic are both Masculine. The four
modalities also go in order like the Functions and Animals do, following
the Grant Stack layout. See Sexuals for how they connect to the
Functions.

Modifications
Referring to why two people of the exact same 512 type can be so
different. The two biggest factors we see and use are Social Types and
Mindset. See External Factors.

Molester Factor
Most people that are molested, are molested by someone who lives close.
It's not common for a complete stranger to take advantage of someone
out of nowhere. Most thieves steal from people in their own community.
Most jobs people find, come from replying to a "help wanted" signs.
Most people would rather stay at a horrible job than ever go build their
own business. Most friendships come from people we already know. The
point is, humans rarely (almost never) take the path of most resistance.
Rather than doing the hard work of picking up and moving out of a bad
environment, we'd rather sit and just "make the best" with what we
have. Look at the people in your toxic friend group. Everyone will stay
in that group no matter how bad it is. This is the "molester factor".
We (all humans) would rather stay in the known pain of a toxic
environment than ever take on the unknown pain of creating something new
and better.

Mommy
Someone who is over protecting and enabling someone else. A mommy can be
a parent, boyfriend, girlfriend, friend, boss, job, government, etc. A
Child is being robbed of the painful growth of suffering the consequence
of their own Tidalwaves. Someone else is standing between the child and
the Universe. The common motivation is often the default, unconscious
urge of, "I love this person, so I don't want them to suffer." This
trade off of "no pain now" then compounds the pain for the child
later.

Monkey Functions
Another name for the Delta Quadrant, all xSFP and xNTJ types that have
the Se/Ni, Fi/Te coins.

Monkey Mountain
A blunt term referring to the Social Hierarchy. We came up with this
term from watching primate documentaries and saw how the chimps were all
playing the same social games the humans are. Or to put it more
accurately, we (humans) are still playing the same social games primates
always have. Humans add layers of social etiquette on top of the drive
for Power and Control. All of our motivations and drives are trying to
keep us from getting killed off or cast out. Moving up the social heap
is the best way to be protected (better someone else gets killed off
than you).

Monkey Naps
This is a consistent phenomena that we see happening to people that
start to see their self patterns. This first happened to us when we were
watching documentaries on chimpanzees and first saw the Animal
Functions. This realization that we (humans) were just monkeys knocked
us unconscious for eight hours. It was only the middle of the afternoon
but this deep realization felt like it "put a scar on our brain" and
we passed out. It feels like when the mind sees something it's been
working to hide from you, that it "scars" and then falls into a deep
sleep to recover. The first time this happened to us was the most
extreme. Since then we've had many "brain breaking" realizations that
always make us really sleepy. We thought it was just us, but we are
getting reports of this happening to others who are going through their
own "waking up" journey.

Monopoly
From our point of view, the largest factor in the cycles of the economy,
is the monopoly factor. The monopoly factor is where one small group
gets everything, and everyone else gets nothing. This then forces the
99% that don't have much to finally rebel and start the game over
again. The monopoly factor is where the build up of negative energy
comes from in the 144 year cycle of Hard Times Create Weak Men. For
example, in the early 2000s, Amazon.com was just one of many online
retailers. Today (2022) they are quickly becoming a monopoly. Their
rapid growth has pushed thousands of companies out of business.

From what history teaches us is that Jeff Bezos will never get to a
point where he controls himself. Jeff will never stop one day and go,
"Huh, I think I've consumed enough with my Saviors, time to start
breaking up my empire so others can share in the wealth." Jeff, like 7
billion other humans, is just going to keep devouring for himself, on
the backs of slaves, until the pain gets so bad that the mob is forced
to stop him. What started off as "just another small company"
eventually grows to be an unstoppable juggernaut. The rich will always
get richer until there's nothing left for everyone else. The funniest
thing is, the people at the bottom always think they wouldn't do that
if they were in charge.

Mope
A nickname for the Savior Sleep and Consume types (SC, CS). Most often
these types are very Introverted with low energy. They often have droopy
eyes and look like they haven't fully woken up yet.

Motivation
Like Jocko teaches, the temporary feeling of being motivated is not
something to count on. It's great when you have it and consider it an
extra credit blessing when you get a burst. Day to day it's Discipline
that will get you through.

Mumble Fuck
Refers to someone who is Blast last and is hard to hear or understand
when they talk.

Musical Chairs
We use this term most often when referring to the Social Roles and
Archetypes. We all play a role, archetype, character, or position in the
Social Hierarchy. If everyone else is playing the dope, then that role
is taken and you will have to pick another role. When everyone in a
tribe is fighting for being the Child, this then forces someone to be
the Adult. See Forced Alpha.

Myers Briggs Letters
Referring to the 4 letter code that acts very much like a label or name
for a particular Function stack. Take for example, the INFP which
symbolizes someone with the Function stack of Fi/Ne/Si/Te. Saying
"INFP" is just an easier way of saying the type, rather than listing
out all the Functions. We still use the Myers Briggs letters because of
the simplicity of referring to the Grant Function Stack. Here is a
breakdown of the Myers Briggs 4 letters using an INFP as an example:

1st Letter: Introverted or Extroverted first Function? In this case it
is "I" for Introverted, because the first Function is Fi.
2nd Letter: Intuition or Sensing? In this case it's a "N" for
Intuition. But because of the Jumpers, not all INFPs are Savior Ne. Some
are Savior Si.
3rd Letter: Feeling or Thinking? In this case it's a "F" for
Feeling.
4th Letter: Perceiving or Judging? In this case it's a "P" for
Perceiving which is all types with Savior Di and Oe (Savior Consumes).
See Perceiving and Judging.

In the OP system, some INFPs do match up very much with the classic
Myers Briggs description of INFP. They are an Introverted Person (have
Sleep and Consume in their top 3 Animals), are Savior Ne, not Si, and
are Savior Oe, not Oi. But other INFPs are Extroverted People (have
Blast and Play in the top 3 Animals), and are Savior Si, and therefore
Oi. Take for example a Fi/Si-SB/P(C). This type is very Extroverted as
well as very controlling with Demon Intuition. This type still has the
classic INFP Function stack of Fi/Ne/Si/Te, but in real life, they are
very different from the classic INFPs.

Myers Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI)
Isebel Myers and her daughter Katherine Briggs first started their
interesting personality in the early 1900s. When Carl Jung's book
"Psychological Types" came out in 1923 they integrated much of Jung's
work with their own. By World War II they began to work on a type
indicator to help women entering the workforce. Their first type
handbook was published in 1944. Though the MBTI became popular over the
decades, it still greatly lacks a scientific foundation and is
considered a pseudoscience. See Wiki.

Myers Briggs, 16 Types
See Types, 16.

N
undefined

N
Stands for Intuitive, Intuition.

Narcissism
The classic description for Narcissism is something we see and define
very clearly in the OPS system. Grandiose, never wrong, center of
attention, arrogant, lacking sympathy for others, followed by a swing of
self hatred. First, most people that are supposedly narcissists, are
actually just normal people that have just triggered an over sensitive
ExxJ. Meaning, MOST of the time the people that are claiming to be
victimized by a "narcissist" are just another ExxJ crying wolf. It is
normal for every ExxJ to always see "the guy above them" as the
"narcissist". So when we are talking about a "true narcissist" we
are usually aligning with what the FBI labels as a true narcissist. The
OP system goes into turbo mode when there is actually some objective
measure, grownup, and definable problem in reality. For example, when
the FBI (or similar organizations) label a person a true narcissist, we
always see these factors:

- Chances are the Savior Di, often time IxxP, though we do see people of
all types.
- Extremely high chance that this person is a "Number 1" in the Social
Types. This seems to be the biggest factor.
- Often (not always) the person has some kind of childhood trauma.

When you put all the factors together, and start comparing true
narcissists (and murders) against others of the same factors, you see
extreme predictability. Meaning, the more factors they have in common,
the more their actions and motivations are exactly the same as others in
the same data set. The more extreme a person is, the more the OP system
can see and predict them.

NAVY SEALS
When it comes to training the life sucking subjectivity out of yourself,
no one is training harder than the special forces. The SEALS, Green
Berets, FBI, CIA, the list goes on. Any group that is choosing to serve
a non-moveable, objective goal with life and death in the balance. We
will often use the phrase "NAVY SEAL TRAINING'' to imply how hard
training the subjectivity out of yourself really is. Studying the
special forces showed us that we are not the first ones to go through
hell. They showed us that we are capable of 10x more than we thought
possible. It's a daily grind of discipline with lots of pain along the
way. Having a greater purpose, choosing to be the warrior identity,
working with others to get the job done and never quitting no matter
what.

Nazis
Jordan Peterson lays out one of the best thought experiments on seeing
the darkness of humanity. He says that it was normal people like you and
me that followed the Nazi party into the evil extremes of innocent
people. Most people do what most people do, and that is say, "Oh, I
totally wouldn't do that! I would have just left! I would have stood up
and done the right thing, duh." Very, very few people can see deep into
their own darkness and see the reality of the truth... "Of course I
would have gone along and done evil things... I'm no different than
anyone else." The most wicked people in history have always been the
ones that can't see their own darkness.

Another example where the term "Nazi" comes about is when someone is
in an extreme fear state will very often say that if you don't listen
to them, things will turn out worse than when the Nazis where in power.
This is just an example of Gun to the Head and Hijacking. "I know there
are millions of problems in the world, but if you don't listen to me
and my solutions, then things will get worse than Nazi Germany!" Alex
Jones, Jordan Peterson, and Ben Shapiro are all people that like to play
this card.

Ne
Stands for Extroverted Intuition.

Need
To be tied to an outcome, to need someone or something in the external
world to happen or not happen in order to be happy. We all start off
extremely in need of other people to take care of us. Like a baby bird
being fed by its mother, the child lives a life of extreme ups and
downs. When the outside sources gives you what you need, you are happy.
If the outside source lets you down, you are sad. The deepest form of
need is the demand for no pain in our Demons. This is the strongest,
most predictable force we see that drives people over time. To become
free of need one must go through the Hero's Journey in order to achieve
Zen.

Needs
See Human Needs.

Nerd
We usually use this word in the context of a "NT-nerd". Meaning,
someone who is Savior NT and is going all in on their smart ideas at the
expense of SF-social-awkwardness. We see what society usually calls a
"nerd" is someone who is Introverted and Intuitive. Most often a
Standard INTJ or INTP. To be "nerdy" the social requirements seem to
be socially awkward, in your head, smarter than everyone at some kind of
science, physically weak and clumsy, glasses, and a bad dresser with a
childish haircut. Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg, and Bob Lazar are classic
examples of NT-nerds. But not all Savior NTs fit the nerd description
such as Jake Gyllenhaal, Tony Hawk, and Kevin Bacon.

Nervous
The Single Deciders are far more nervous at scale compared to the Single
Observers. Meaning, if you have 100 Deciders and 100 Observers send in
videos for Video Typing, you can see an overall contrast between the
two. Everyone is nervous about sending in a video that people are going
to watch and judge. But for most Observers, by about the 10 minute mark
they relax and can get into a flow. For most Deciders they are nervous
through the entire 1 hour video. Single Observers seem to suffer from a
low level constant Anxiety about pathways, missing information, walls
are closing in on me, etc. Single Deciders suffer from a low level of
nervousness because of tribe judgment, not being good enough, people
won't like me, etc.

NF
Anyone with Savior N and F (Fi/Ni, Ni/Fi, Fi/Ne, Ne/Fi, Ni/Fe, Fe/Ni,
Ne/Fe, Fe/Ne).

NF (Myers Briggs)
In their system this refers to the INFP, ENFP, INFJ, ENFJ.

NFT
Stands for Non Fungible Token. To break this down, fungible is something
that can be replaced by an identical item of that category. For example,
if I owe you a dollar, I can pay you with any old dollar I have in my
wallet, or even 4 quarters. If I owe you a cup of rice, I can pay you
with any cup of rice. So non-fungible means that there is no other
"token" like it in the world. So, if I have 50 signed autographed
cards from Gary Vee, and I give you number 39 out of 50, that card is
non-fungible. Meaning, there is no other card in the world like it, you
have the only 39/50 autograph signed card from Gary Vee. So what
creators, influencers, celebrities, and others are doing, is simply
creating art, tokens, autographed cards, whatever, and putting them on
the blockchain. The blockchain is a network of computers around the
world so there is no "one evil guy" controlling the whole thing. The
blockchain is a community owned ledger that keeps track of digital
transactions. So, if you buy that 39/50 NFT card from Gary Vee, and you
pay for it with a cryptocurrency like Bitcoin or Ethereum, it is tracked
on the blockchain and everyone in the world can see that you are the
only one that owns the 39/50 card. Now, as Gary Vee becomes more popular
over the next 10 years, the value of that NFT will also increase. Now
you can sell that NFT for a lot more than what you bought it for, keep
most of the profits, and Gary keeps 10% (or whatever he originally set
up). This now allows creators to have their community buying NFTs from
them. These are most often just some sort of simple digital trading
cards. There is no real value in the image of the art, but rather the
"collectors value" it holds because it's from a popular person.

Ni
Stands for Introverted Intuition.

Ni Eyes
See Eyes, Ni.

Nihilism
Classically defined as a rejection of all religious and moral
constraints and principals and therefore believes life is meaningless.
We believe that letting go of default, culture, and religious beliefs
are part of the process of letting go, hitting Rock Bottom, and becoming
more Zen so you can start to see reality. The more Middlemen one has
between them and reality (Saviors, religion, society, etc) the more a
person can't see reality and therefore are constantly tormented. We see
those who become free, let go of unconsciousness and blame, do tend to
take a stop in Nihilism for a while. We see it as part of the rock
bottom process of the Hero's Journey. See Existentialism.

NLP
This stands for Neuro Linguistic Programming, which is just a fancy term
for words that pull up emotions inside you. Tony Robbins and hypnotists
are big with this concept. The words you say and think (linguistic)
reflect your inner beliefs (neuro) which then play out through your
behavior (programming). So for example, if every time you see your mom,
she tells you that you are a bad person, and then you believe and feel
that, you are in a bad NLP loop. The trigger of your mom saying those
words spikes off bad chemicals and beliefs inside you, that you then
play out. This is why the self growth teachers talk so much about being
careful with how you speak to yourself. The words you say pull up
powerful emotions that you then act on. Hypnotists and salesmen use this
as a tool/weapon to anchor powerful emotions to sights, sounds, or
words.

No Machine
A term that usually refers to people with Savior Masculine Thinking (Ti
or Te). Savior Masculine Thinkers tend to say "NO" much more than
everyone else. We all shove on our Masculine Functions and are moveable
on our Feminine Functions. The Feminine De is trying to get people to
agree and will sacrifice truth to get there. Like the old sales
technique of trying to get people to say "YES" as many times in a row
as you can in order to build rapport. From the Masculine Thinker's
perspective, they have put in the work to figure this out, they know
they are right and the other person is wrong, so why sugar coat it? Many
times the Masculine Thinkers will even start a sentence with "NO" even
though they still agree. For example, "Hey, would you like some ice
cream?" "No, but I'm going to get some ice cream in a few minutes."
"WTF?!"

Non-Heterosexual
In our records we use the terms "heterosexual" and "non
heterosexual" in tracking our data. On the one hand, we know and
support the LGBTQ+ movement and getting the social wording figured out.
We will call anyone whatever pronouns they prefer in their personal
life. What we are talking about here, is spreadsheets, data, systems,
zeros and ones. We need to have terms into binary coins so we can work
with the data. We are at the very beginning of our gender studies so we
don't yet have the processing systems to keep track of all the details
and specifics for each individual. We will in the future though as we
build the Profiles, 512.

Non Need
The state of letting everything go and choosing to not let anything or
anyone have leverage or power over you. In order to do this one needs to
also be filled with a higher purpose or a Mission. This purpose or
mission is something that brings personal meaning and therefore can
never be taken away by outside factors. This is a core message that is
taught in the Man Book, Stoicism, and Zen.

Not Done Yet
Referring to someone who is still the Child identity and is starting to
see how unconscious and irresponsible they are, but has not hit Rock
Bottom. They keep forgetting how bad they are and fall back into the
same bad habits that build up their Tidalwaves.

Not Tony Robbins
A funny phrase we often use in the opening moves of the Typing Procedure
to determine one's Baseline, particularly on the I/E spectrum. Out of
512 types, Tony Robbins is number 512, he's on one extreme of the bell
curve. Tony is an icon for the following traits in a Savior state: MM,
Play, Blast, De, Oe, Thinking, Sensing, Extrovert, Info dom. These
traits are "punching you in the face" (sometimes literally in Tony's
case). So, our goal in typing is to eliminate the 511/512 types this
person is NOT. So, if the person is not explosively masculine and
Extroverted, they are probably not Tony Robbins and we can eliminate
that type from the list. This is used as a warm up move because it's so
easy, and is an example to take super small steps in the typing
procedure.

NT
Anyone with Savior N and T (Ni/Ti, Ti/Ni, Ne/Ti, Ti/Ne, Ni/Te, Te/Ni,
Ne/Te, Te/Ne).

NT (Myers Briggs)
In their system this refers to the INTP, ENTP, INTJ, ENTJ.

Number 1-4
Referring to where people tend to see themselves in the tribe. For
example, the person at the top is often called the "Number 1" and the
second in charge is the "Number 2". Using the Number 1s as an example,
some people are just born with an aggressive drive to be on the top and
conquer. Their upbringing alone doesn't explain why they were so driven
at two years old. See Social Types.

O
undefined

O
Stands for Observer, Observing.

Objective
Something that is objective can be defined, measured, and reproduced in
reality by many people. For example, when your car won't start in the
morning, there is an objective process that follows to diagnose, define,
and fix the problem. Now is not the time for a subjective opinion such
as, "I don't like this problem, I just want to bang on it to make it
work!" There is a real problem in reality, and when you look up the
part numbers and solve the real problem (say it's just a dead battery)
then you get a result. This result is an objective result, meaning, 1000
people with the same car and the same problem can follow the same steps
and get the same outcome. In the Objective Personality System we are
looking for what the real cause of the definable, measurable, repeatable
life problems are. What are the real solutions that not only work for
this one person, but also work for everyone else of that same type with
that same problem?

Objective Functions
Another name for Extroverted Functions.

Objective Goals
Objective goals are real, measurable goals to ensure growth is
happening. For example, "I set a goal to work out for at least 5
minutes a day, 5 days a week, over the next 3 months." As opposed to
subjective goals which say something like, "I don't like being out of
shape, I'm going to try to get in better shape someday." Objective
goals aim to take things out of the personal gray areas and into the
light of external accountability where it can be written down, repeated,
and verified by others. Objective goals (the more the better) are used
to trap a person's addiction to Saviors and avoidance of their Demons.
If you were to do just one thing, and never study personal growth or
personality types again, it would be to set objective goals. The setting
of objective goals is what all the Alphas do and it is the mechanism
that forces your Saviors and Demons to work together. See Goals,
Examples.

Objective Life
When a person is living according to measurable standards and goals
outside themselves, rather than "whatever makes sense to them"
(subjective life). The person living an objective life fears falling
back into the toxic ups and downs of the Subjective Life. A person
living an objective life is repentant of their old subjective ways and
therefore puts Standards and Goals to keep themselves accountable.

Objective Math
Trusting the patterns of your type and objective goals over how you
subjectively feel in the moment. The same concept of setting Standards
for goals, but only it applies to your type. An IxxJ trusting that if
they ever feel stuck by chaos, they can work backwards from the math to
know it's coming from them. Same with an IxxP feeling like the tribe
hates them, the ExxP feeling controlled, and the ExxJ feeling not good
enough. What we see is this happening at least 10 times a day for
everyone and almost no one is Catching a Few.

Objective Typing
What sets OPS apart from all other personality systems is the ability to
independently arrive at the same type without influencing each other.
This is what we call the Dividing Line. All other personality systems
rely on Subjective Typing and therefore have very low consistent
numbers. Meaning, if you take the best practitioners from any given
personality system (including the MBTI and BIG 5) they will not even
agree with each other half the time. We clearly define our terms in
Binary Coins, have a Typing Procedure, and type people independently and
arrive at the same type out 512 possible types most of the time, for
thousands of times. We have an objective way to determine if we are
"right or wrong" simply by seeing if we got the same type as our
partner. When we get parts off (often the sexuals or middle Animals) we
can go back to our notes and see where we are off. The more people we
type, the greater we can see what our Batting Average is. Using the
Scientific Method, we can then improve the definitions and/or the Typing
Procedure. We log the people we've typed and predictable patterns
emerge from that data. So, when we say "we got someone's type right"
we are referring to the fact that we both arrived at the same type
independently out of 512 possible types. There is a consistent process
of statistics that can be examined, rather than the subjective way of
tying. See Subjective Typing.

Observer, Observing (O)
Also known as a Single Observer and Double Decider. All IxxJs and ExxP,
anyone with Si, Ni, Ne, or Se as a first Function. Single Observers have
Sensing or Intuition as first or last Function and therefore have the
Human Needs of Oi and Oe on the poles. They tend to be "all or
nothing" when it comes to observations.

Observer Freakout
When an Observer (IxxJ or ExxP) is freaking out about some kind of thing
issue. Their Fight or Flight nervous system has been Triggered. They
will be relatively calm about people, decisions, and conflicting points
of view, but feel upset and stuck over something to do with missing
information, current events, something new, something controlling, etc.
When typing people, we see the Observers "set up" their point calmly
with their point of view and the point of view of others, and then their
punchline, or freakout is about some kind of thing or pathway. The
Observers will say extreme things when having an Observer freakout: "I
can't find my keys, I think someone broke in and stole them!" "I can
never work these things, can you do it for me?" "Everything has
changed, how am I supposed to know?" "Did you see the scary thing on
the news! We need to get ready to bugout."

Observing Functions
Introverted Intuition, Introverted Sensing, Extroverted Intuition,
Extroverted Sensing. They are abbreviated Ni, Si, Ne, Se.

Observing Letters
Sensing and Intuition. They are abbreviated S and N.

OCD
The classic description for OCD is what we have independently defined in
the OP system as an IxxJ tidalwave. Over controlling, compulsive
ordering, elimination of new, followed by a swing of chaos. This
disorder clusters with IxxJs in a Savior state and ExxPs in a Demon
state. Some Savior Oi IxxPs and ExxJ can also be extremely over
controlling.

Oe
Stands for Extroverted Observer, Ne or Se.

Officially Typed
We do not "officially type" anyone, all we offer is our best guess of
someone's type at this time. The term "officially typed" is often
used by the Facebook Group to distinguish between people who have Self
Typed or have been through the Video Typing process and are typed by
Dave and Shan. In the personality community, being "officially typed"
has more social value than being self typed. See Tribalism and Shaved.

Off the Record
Refers to when a person gives themselves special treatment to rant,
vent, complain, or gossip about a problem they see as "real". They
would never let other people do this behavior, but because in their
minds it's just a little complaining in the cracks of time, it doesn't
count. For example, you are going to lunch with a friend and the whole
time they are complaining about the waiter, the service, what their mom
did to them last year, etc. Even when you are trying to order your food,
they are still going on and on about how bad they have it. Finally, when
you are trying to sort out the check with the waitress, you have to turn
to your friend and ask them to be quiet for a second. They are shocked
and didn't even realize they had been talking and complaining the whole
time. They would never want to Hijack a meal for therapy time, so their
mind thought they could just sneak in a few complaints and it wouldn't
be a big deal. This is why the most psycho people don't see themselves
as crazy. All these hours a day when they are being abusive "don't
count" because they don't even know they were doing it. See Hypocrite.

Oi
Stands for Introverted Observer, Ni or Si.

One Percent Progress
Set your goals on getting 1% progress over 3 months, rather than trying
to be 100% perfect today. This simple, conscious mindshift has allowed
us to get moving in life. The default setting for all of us (and some
have it worse than others) is that we are expected to do so much, all at
once, right now, and it better be perfect. You get a big dopamine hit
and praise from all your friends if you win, and you are sad and suck if
you lose. This default impulse in all of us is just not accurate. We try
to train our minds to see reality and that is anyone who has ever done
something big, had to take the small steps Wally Wallington approach.
This mind shift makes it very hard for anxiety and depression to set in
after a bad day. I don't have to win for the day, I'm trying to Win
for the Year.

One to One
Doing something one time that you will just have to do again. Build a
damn system and stop wasting your life dog-shooing. Examples include the
nagging updates on your phone, the beeping smoke detector, the barking
dog, the piling up dishes, the leaky sink, the messy car, the car tire
that has a small leak, etc. We think we don't have time to fix these
little annoying issues so we just do the bare minimum to swat them away,
knowing we'll have to do it again tomorrow. Our brains lie to us and
therefore cost us the most amount of time loss by the end of the year.
Anything that has annoyed you more than a few times just may need a
System. See Win for the Year.

OO
Stands for Double Observer.

Operators
A full time team member who can objectively type consistently at or
close to the 90% mark. In order to reach our OPS Goals we must
consistently hire and train people who can objectively type at or above
the 90% mark (see OPT-100). At scale, we are going to need teams of
Operators to type thousands of clients as well as train AI to type at a
larger scale. Depending on the person, it takes a few years of hard
training to become an Operator. It takes just a few months to "learn
the information" and a couple years of thousands of reps to build the
inner habits of catching the self biases.

OPS
Stands for Objective Personality System. A little known fact is, the
word "Objective" is not referring to our process of typing, but rather
the way out of anxiety and depression. The recurring life problems come
from addiction to subjectivity (our Savior Functions) and therefore,
objectivity is the answer.

OPS Beliefs
Not everyone is a believer in OPS and that's ok. The claims we are
making are high and the burden of proof is on us. Here are four
foundational points that are the core of what we believe. Over the years
we will be working to make these claims more widely accepted:
1) We believe that the 512 personality code is genetic. See OPS Proof.
2) We believe that the reason psychology has not been able to see this
for thousands of years is because of fear of the darkness. See Cracking
the Code.
3) We believe the only way a few people ever get free is by being under
enough pressure to finally see themselves. See Rock Bottom.
4) Going through the Hero's Journey is how a Child moves from the
Subjective, Panic State, Identity, to the Objective, Scientific Method,
Identity.

OPS Goals
Our major goal is to create personality profiles that are built on real
data and science (See Profiles, 512). We want to make a form of this
data available to all who seek it. People seeking self growth, those
going through depression, business, and government agencies. The two
questions/goals I ask myself each day are these: Is what I'm doing
today building me into the type of person that can lead an all night
meeting with the FBI? The second question I ask all the time is; Does
this contribute to the plan of having weekly live events every Sunday in
every major city along the west coast?

OPS Proof
Like the OPS Beliefs above, we do not expect all, or even most people to
believe our claims at this time. We actually prefer this, because it
buys us more time to stay small and build the foundational systems and
team needed for the long haul. Below are points that are the proof for
us and why we believe the 512 code is genetic:
1) There is no other way two or more people, independently of each
other, type the same subject, out of 512 possible types with a 90%
consistency rate. See the Dividing Line.
2) Once have a person typed, we are able to predict their conversations,
actions, and lifestyle because we know their driving fears. See
Predictability.
3) People of the same type often look alike, make the same life choices,
and even have the same health issues. See Lookalikes.
4) This stuff works. People who can see both sides of themselves become
free from anxiety and depression. See Hero's Journey.

OPS Split
From the very beginning (2014) we could see that the mainstream public
was not going to accept the dark truths of the OP system. An example we
often use is, think of the abusive, controlling, narcissistic, old lady
that lives in your neighborhood. She has gone her whole life playing the
victim and attacking everyone else. When she gets her OPS profile back,
the data just now confirms what everyone in her life has been saying.
She is the bully, and everyone else is the victim! This does not, and
never does, go over well for most people. For the same reason that all
self growth material will never be mainstream, is the same reason the
OPS material will never be mainstream. Humans, at scale, move away from
what makes them subjectively feel bad, and move towards short term
pleasures.

What will sell, and what can go mainstream to billions of people is some
sort of watered down, subjective, Ding-da-Ding version. Most people just
want to make sure they are the best, most rare type, and add to their
victim story of how no one understands them. People largely use this
material long term to bully and belittle others in their lives. They now
have more ammo to attack their family members that annoy them. So what
we are doing is waiting for the sleaze-bags to rise up and use our
material to sell the masses what they want to hear. Over time, one of
them will have enough business sense to actually make it work. We plan
to partner with whatever company wants to and can sell the OPS material
in a mainstream way. We don't like it, we warn people not to do it, but
we also accept that the fake-shit is what sells at scale. We personally
will just work more and more behind the scenes with those who are
objectively accountable (have a real problem to solve).

OPT-100
Can someone type at our above the 90% consistency mark? If so, how many
did they do? How do you prove or verify this? The Objective Personality
Test is for the Operators in training. They must type 100 clients, with
a third party overseeing, and get 90% consistency. The specifics of this
breaks down as follows: They have a set time to complete the OPT-100 and
must complete it in that time frame. The reason for this is 99% of being
a full time team member here is about managing complex projects with
others on a timeline. Next, an Operator in training must have at least
one partner (preferably 4 Operators total). Now the trainee is
responsible for all of their variables plus those of their teammates. A
full time Operator's mission is to help people, and you can't help
your own buddy show up on time? Finally, even if a person has a natural
skill of typing (which we do see) and they are a low character shit
head, they will be exposed and voted out by the other team members. We
see this alot. Everyone thinks it's about the damn "skill".
Meanwhile, they have the toxic identity of a Hijacker and make
everyone's life around them miserable. The OPT-100 is designed to test
a person not only on their typing skills, but also their ability to
manage complex projects over time, AND be a positive member to those
around them.

Organize
Usually referring to Oi, see Introverted Observer.

Ouija Board
An analogy for the phenomenon of Groupthink like forces that produce
consistent results. For example, we see people typing in small study
groups and they all end up with the same type as each other. Now, the
results are not consistent with what we got, but the interesting point
here is how they all ended up with the same (yet off) type. When we sat
in on these groups we observed classic Groupthink playing out. For
example, when typing Anthony Fauci (who is FF-Ti/Ne-CP/B(S)) the
sessions went as follows: "I just heard Fauci say we need more testing,
I think that is Savior control." "Yes, Oi's want more control."
"And he wants everyone to get in line for vaccines, this sounds very
Si." "Yes, he wears glasses and my grandma also wears glasses and she
is Savior Si." What the hell just happened? Nobody is going towards any
kind of checklist, definitions, cross checking coins, etc. It's just
too easy to go along with the chatter of groupthink and in the end,
everyone thinks THEY arrived at this conclusion independently. Like the
classic Ouija Board game, everyone is subtly moving the conversation and
also going along and not even knowing they are doing it. See Groupthink.

Owen Cook
We typed Owen as a MF-Ne/Fi-CP/B(S). The male MF-Ne/Fi is one of the
most common types we have on file. The ENFPs seem to love YouTube and
that's where we currently get most of our data from. Red Hair clusters
in this type, especially the more Extroverted ones. All the guys of this
type are funny, are into music, can't stop traveling, and rant about
how the government is controlling us in some way. Owen spent 20 years in
the dating and pick up world and became a master in social situations.
Celebrities and millionaires pay Owen alot of money to coach them in
social skills. His teaching can be hard to follow because they are very
NF and Sleep last, but he does have some of the best understanding of
people and their motivations. This guy put in the time in the real world
to get Derren Brown level results.

Owie Report
Referring to the Savior Sleeps that will talk about a small injury they
have. Savior Play people are usually going fast in life and don't have
time to stop and feel a small pain in their wrist. They also don't slow
down to see what may be causing this pain which is why the pain often
gets worse for them over time. One of the things Sleep is responsible
for is to not waste energy tripping over the same thing forever. They
don't have the energy to waste like the Plays do. If you look for it,
you'll see that Savior Sleep people will talk a long time about some
small pain they have and how serious they are taking it, in contrast to
how the Savior Plays downplay their owies.

Ownership
What do we mean by being Responsible, to be an owner, to have ownership?
Ownership for us is the ability to do a task right and to do it no
matter what. Ownership is NEVER dropping the ball and forcing others to
stop what they are doing to come save you (Hijacker). Non-ownership is
the crossroads of not having enough consciousness. The non-owner has
anxiety because they are unaware of all the factors that are needed
across time to win. The non-owner is driven by ego and is here to show
everyone how good they are at the loser-task. The non-owner would never
think to build systems or teamwork because that is a threat to them.
They would rather take the week off, let all their responsibilities come
crashing down, screw everyone over, and then just blame and attack
anyone who dares to call them on it.

Ownership has nothing to do with being the best at the loser-task or
skill. There are a million people who can do that skill better than you,
but almost all of them will quit and disappear when things get hard. For
example, when people want to work here, they all run for the top and
want to do the highest level task they can. Build an APP, do more
videos, typing, etc. Something that they probably "can" do, at least
for a week or two, but they have no idea that they CAN'T do that every
week until the end of time. They just have excuses and blame ready to go
on the hard days. An owner is like a teacher at school where they KNOW
that they won't be able to make it to 100% of the school days they are
committed to. So therefore, they already have systems and others in
place to step in as a substitute teacher.

An owner knows the task has to be done with no days off. The owner knows
they can't be perfect every day, so they build systems and teamwork to
make sure the task is done without them. The non-owners think they are
the best, have no idea that they quit every time things get hard, and
would never want others to do their task. The non-owner does tasks for
ego, "Here's my chance to show everyone how good I am, they need me!"
The owner just wants to serve the team and the mission and they know
they are a weak link. They have enough consciousness and responsibility
to put in systems that are bigger than them so they don't become the
bottleneck. See Trash.

G
undefined

Game Day
See Judgment Day.

Gamma Quadrant
A Socionics term that refers to all the types with the Functions of:
Se/Ni, Fi/Te (xSFP, aNTJ in the Myers-Briggs system).

Garlic
Since about 2015 we have taken large amounts of raw garlic whenever we
get a cold or flu. When Cody was young, he would bring home a new cold
or flu every few months and we would all be constantly sick for weeks.
Once we started taking raw garlic for sicknesses, we have never had a
sickness lasting longer than 12-24 hours. This hasn't kind of worked
for us, this has overwhelmingly worked for us every time. We've knocked
out over 20 sicknesses between the three of us now. This is just
anecdotal information, so consult your doctor, etc.

Gary Vaynerchuk
We typed Gary as a MM-Fe/Se-PB/C(S). We've been watching Gary since
2006 and he has been the most consistently happy person we've ever
seen. Gary has been a "social media prophet" and has always been way
ahead of what is popular. Gary's consistent message has always been to
find what makes you happy and stop beating yourself up over other
people's opinion of how you should live your life. Through hard times
growing up, and an incredible work ethic, Gary has built for himself the
best inner world we've ever seen. He goes through more drama everyday
than any of us do in a year. Yet, he's always happy, he is never the
victim, and is always the most positive force in the room. According to
our "math" Gary should not exist. There's just no way that a Sleep
last ExxJ with Fem-Di at the bottom could ever be so internally strong,
yet there he is every year. Gary continues to break our limiting
worldviews and show that being a happy person all the time is possible.
His inner world and the outer world are perfectly aligned.

Gather
Usually referring to Oe, see Extroverted Observer.

Gaytio
Referring to the ratio of heterosexual to Non-Heterosexual people in a
512 type. For example, when it comes to male, MF-Ne/Fi types we have
close to 100 of them on file. Out of those 100, all of them but two are
heterosexual. So their gaytio is just 2%. When it comes to the females
of the same type, we have about 20 of them on file and just over half of
them are non-heterosexual. They are gay, bi, trans, etc. So their gaytio
is closer to 55%, meaning that most females of this type are NOT
heterosexual. This is the wording we have for now, subject to
improvement as our study of sexuals continues.

Gender Spectrum
In or data we are clearly seeing a gender spectrum, just like the LGBTQ
community has been saying all along. For example, we are tracking 512
personality types, with a male and female version of each. In the male,
MF-Ne/Fi doc we have over 50 guys typed, all of them heterosexual, with
only one being mildly bisexual. In the females of this type, we have
about 20 people typed, with half being straight, and the other half
being lesbian, bisexual, trans, etc. So, with this current data, we can
say that if you are a male, MF-Ne/Fi there is a very high chance you are
straight, and if you are a female of that same type, there is a very
high chance you are not straight. We are seeing this with every one of
the 512 personality types. Non-straight people tend to cluster in
certain types and not others. So if you are gay, chances are many other
people of your same type are also gay.

Genetic Factors
One of the biggest factors that sets OPS apart from all other
personality systems is the Clustering of genetic factors within type.
People of the exact same 512 type most often have very similar physical
features. So not everyone of your exact personality type will look like
you, but some will look somewhat like you. Once we have somewhere to 10
to 20 people of the same type, the Type Twins start to appear. We are
seeing that specific physical traits are distinct from each other. The
closer someone is to your exact 512 type, the chances are they share
many of the same physical features. Physical traits we are tracking are:
Hair color, male pattern baldness, curly or straight hair, eye color,
eye spacing, ear shape, nose size, shape, and symmetry, lips, teeth,
mouth size, flat face or angle face, height, weight, muscle mass,
posture, athleticism vs geeky, body proportions, walking gait, gender,
sexual preference, intelligence, and race.

Get The Joke
Some people just can't stand outside their own biases and let go of
Prove it to Me Syndrome. Reality and truth has to be filtered through
ONLY their perspective, logic, anecdotes, self story, and what makes
sense to them. While other people can stand outside their own biases and
blindspots and make it through that uncomfortable feeling of, "You may
just be wrong even though you feel you are right". Where this plays out
the most is in typing the public. These are the people you see on the
forums spelling out their type in their walls of text, and can't "get
the joke" that they are Doing it Right Now! For example, it's the
Savior Sensory person who is providing endless lines of facts and proof
as to why they are Savior Intuitive. It's the IxxP guy who's trying to
convince everyone that he really does care about the tribe and he's and
ExxJ, etc. Where this really plays out, whether someone accepts their
type or not, is the 50 times a day that they are doing what everyone
else of their type is doing and just can't see it. They just argue,
fight, resist, and demand that their same old story be heard (even
though it's just the same shit everyone else of their type says). And
no matter how many hours, days, weeks, months, years you try and go over
this with them, they just never get the joke. Those that do get the
joke, just say, "Oh, there I go again, doing the same stupid shit
everyone of my type does! Got me, I did it again!" See Judas.

Ghosts
There are thousands of videos on YouTube of people who swear their house
is haunted by some kind of ghost, spirit, or demon. Of course, many of
these are kids trying to get attention or scaring themselves. But if
you've ever known someone in real life who has these dark forces
terrorizing them, you know the experience is shockingly real. Voices,
noises, things moving, scary shit straight out of a movie. For those
that go through it, it consumes their entire life. The ghosts usually
act up at a certain time of night and the person's entire life becomes
hijacked by this abuser. Anyway, whatever is going on, thousands of
people out there are not lying and are permanently traumatized. All we
can say at this time is we see a large clustering of ExxPs going through
this. Mostly lead Se, and mostly lead Mas-Se (Demon Fem-Ni). Bottom line
here is, there are so many factors when it comes to this topic. To get
anywhere, you really have to get into the details of specific cases
using the Scientific Method. Also have compassion on people who are
really going through this. It's hell for them and they don't have many
people that believe them.

Giver
Someone who gives more than they take. The Adult or Alpha and is higher
on the Social Hierarchy. A Giver takes stress away from others and
serves them out of love and abundance. Givers are self-conscious and
take full personal responsibility in all things. They are in non-need,
have themselves settled, and want to give to others because they feel
like they have too much. Givers are Objective, and commit themselves to
Standards and the Scientific Method. Rather than tearing others down,
they look to build themselves and others up. A Giver always feels full
and abundant no matter what. See Taker.

Glass Ceiling
Often refers to a person's self limitations or Limiting Beliefs that
catch up with them in the real world. We see this alot with people where
they can rapidly climb up in life and then just level off. Think back to
the popular kids in high school that seemed to have it all together at
the time, and now they work the night shift at Walmart. Somewhere along
the way, an outside factor became "real" to them and their Saviors
could not conquer it. The person's identity also does not see
themselves as going any higher, so they double down on staying where
they are. Also see Fear of Success.

Glass Lizard
Refers to any person who is double Activated on their 4th Function.
Shannon for example is FM-Te/Se-PC/S(B) and therefore is double
activated on her fourth Function Fi. Being Blast last, she is also
double activated Savior Consume. How this plays out is, even though she
is an ENTJ, she does not exhibit the "normal" traits of a standard
Myers Briggs ENTJ. For example, she is not Oi like a standard ENTJ,
rather she is on the extreme side of Oe. This super Savior Consume makes
her appear to be very ExxP like. This is the same concept as the Glass
Lizard that looks like a snake, but is technically a lizard. Just like
people who are double activated on their 4th Function, you can't always
go by what you assume them to be, you have to carefully check for all
the parts using the Typing Procedure. We see that Glass Lizard types
often feel more overwhelmed than most people due to the consciousness of
their 4th Function. All Glass Lizards (types who are double activated on
their 4th Function) include: IxxP-SB/P(C), IxxJ-SC/P(B), ExxP-CS/B(P),
IxxP-CP/B(S), ExxJ-BS/C(P), IxxJ-BP/C(S), ExxJ-PC/S(B), ExxP-PB/S(C)

Glory Days
Also known as the "good old days" is when a person is looking
backwards to the best time in life. Oftentimes people will peak when
they are younger (18-22) and therefore wrongly assume that "something
is wrong" today. For example, we see people married in their 30s and
40s and blame their current spouse or job for where their life went
wrong. "My life was awesome back in college, and then I met Sally and
she wrecked everything! Now I'm 40 and stuck and if I just wouldn't
have married her, everything would have stayed awesome." This of course
is coming from a subjective, short sighted, Fixed Mindset perspective.
Most people are just sitting on the sidelines of their own life watching
things happen to them.

Goals
The setting of Objective Goals is the only mechanism that gets someone
out of their Savior/Demon addictions and Tidalwaves. Most people fall
into the Forever Learning trap and think that if they just knew more,
that they would somehow have an "unlock" and do better. Like riding a
bike, self balance only happens when you are moving. Here are some
specific examples of daily goals that Alphas set: Getting up at a
specific time, doing a morning workout, a morning self-work time, eating
pre-planned foods at set times, starting and ending work at set times,
guaranteed family time, etc. Some specific medium term goals include:
Meeting one new contact per week, making 10% more money in 90 days,
hiring a new employee by the end of the year, etc. Some long term goals
include: Writing a book in the next 10 years, owning a business,
reaching a certain income marker, serving a certain number of people,
being number one in a specific field, etc. The magic is, the goals
don't matter at all. You don't have to Follow Your Passion, that's
not where the energy is. The energy is in the actual mechanism of
setting and accomplishing goals, that's it. So set small, medium, and
long term goals and Discipline yourself to do them even when you don't
feel like it. Without objective goals a person just falls back into
their Tidalwaves for another go-round.

God
Is there a powerful spirit being who created the Universe and watches
over us? We used to very much think so and had a personal relationship
with the God of the Bible. What happened to us is what we see many or
even most believers going through. That is a total ignorance,
disrespect, and lack of ownership when it comes to our Demons. Anything
super bad or hard (just our Demons) we would toss over the fence for God
to take care of, or blame it on the Devil. Learning these Functions, we
started to see that 99% of things that were giving us anxiety were just
our damn Demon Functions. Starting to see and take responsibility for
them got us up and out of anxiety and depression. So when it comes to
our personal life, we take 110% responsibility for our problems and
don't expect or blame them on someone from another world anymore. See
Psychedelics.

God-King
Similar to a dictator, and the natural state of every person if you give
them enough power with no accountability. An example would be the boss
that works everyone like a slave, doesn't pay them, takes all the
credit, and still demands more. See I Get Everything, You Get Nothing.
Another example where this term is used is when referring to a De person
who is in a bad relationship with a Di person. The Savior De will see
the Savior Di as a "God-King" that must be pleased 24/7. Every little
thing becomes about not upsetting the "God-King". This becomes a toxic
cycle that feeds on itself. The more the De person fears the Di person,
the more the Di pushes for their point of view only.

Goobasaur
A funny phrase that is usually referring to a type that is socially
awkward, tall, lanky, dorky, goofy, or silly. This phrase tends to
cluster around INTJs or INTPs. This word can also come in many
variations: Goober, Goob-a-tron, Goob-a-saur-a-don, Goob-a-saurus-rex,
etc.

Gossip
Talking negatively behind someone's back with others. Gossiping usually
is seen as a bad or negative thing and something we are encouraged not
to partake in. Generally, this is of course good advice to not spread
negativity and just talk with the person directly who you have an issue
with. In many cases though, a person is so toxic and so attacking that
you can not talk with them directly. The tribe still has a massive
amount of negativity they need to resolve, and the person causing it
won't let anyone bring it up. So depending on the context, gossiping is
needed to get the negative energy flowing. Therapists encourage their
clients to get out their negativity they have with their spouse in
private sessions. People with the Fe Function tend to gossip more
because they feel responsible to work out the tribe's issues and use
others to calibrate. They are not sure if Johnny is in the wrong, they
need to share and talk out what Sally is going through and want
everyone's help in getting the social-emotional issue figured out.

Grant Function Stack
See Function Stack.

Greg Plitt
We typed Greg as a FF-Se/Fi-CP/B(S). Greg was an early fitness motivator
and successful model and reality TV actor. When Dave was going through
his hardest times in his mid 30s, he would workout in the basement and
listen to Greg on repeat. Greg hits hard on the Masculine Di; Who do you
want to be? Do you want to keep being the bitch in the corner, always
needing someone else to come babysit you? Or do you want to pick
yourself up, workout consistently, and become someone stronger than your
problems? Don't you want to be someone and go help someone else for a
fucking change? Tragically, and ironically Greg died from running in
front of a train filming a supplement commercial. We always talk about
how the Sleep last ExxPs metaphorically can't see the Ni-train coming
until it's too late. Don't get too attached to your idols, everyone
dies or lives long enough to finally fall.

Gregory Clark
We typed Greg as a FF-Ne/Ti-CP/B(S). As we have been typing more and
more people over the years we started to see a possible pattern in the
data. It appeared to be that intelligence and/or social status was not
appearing randomly. We can track Red Hair clustering in certain types
(ENFP, ISFP, ESTJ, ESFJ). When you stop and think about it, red hair
only shows up in certain races or ancestry. We are seeing people of
certain types clustering race wise. Meaning, some types we have are
mostly white, while others are mostly black, and others mostly asian.
Anyway, we then worked backwards and started to search the internet to
see if anyone else was seeing genetic patterns when it comes to
Intelligence, Race, and Social Status. That is when we found Gregory
Clark. His work is finding exactly what we were suspecting. If your
parents are NOT passing down random genetic codes, then it follows that
certain traits do run in your family line throughout generations. And
when you zoom out your family line even more you hit bigger picture
categories like ancestry and race. We have to wait until we have
thousands more people typed before we could report any kind of real
statistics we are seeing on this. So if you want more on this now,
research Gregory Clark, we are seeing what he's seeing.

Groundhog Day
Living the same day over and over again no matter how much you try to
change it. The term groundhog day comes from the 1993 movie starring
Bill Murray. He was stuck reliving the same day and he couldn't get out
until he learned his lessons. An even better movie that emotionally
portrays the feelings of being enslaved in your bad patterns is the 2014
movie, Edge of Tomorrow, starring Tom Cruise and Emily Blunt. This movie
takes place in the future when an alien race is slowly exterminating the
human race. Tom Cruise's character gets trapped in living the same day
over again and has to repeat it until he figures out how to stop the
aliens. These movies really hit the terrifying feeling of waking up
everyday knowing you are going to get your ass kicked. After many years
of trying to escape, cope, blame, wiggle out, or even die, the hero
eventually see's the only way out is forward. They have to let go of
old toxic beliefs and become a better person in order to move forward
and win.

Groupthink
A phenomenon where people tend to confirm with group decisions in order
to avoid feeling like an outcast, which then produces poor results. For
example, think back to when you had a bunch of friends together and
someone asked, "What does everyone want to do today?" After everyone
is done going through the, "I don't know, what do you want to do?"
talk, someone then mutters out something like, "Well, I heard there is
a rose garden that is open today." All of a sudden, all that awkward
energy and feelings of unsettledness get focused into this unconscious
god-given mission. FIND THE ROSE GARDEN. Everyone then starts chattering
about the rose garden and looking it up on their phones. Nobody really
wants to go, but the awkward uncomfortableness of being in a group with
nothing to do is a greater pain. Humans are pack animals, so going along
with everyone else is most often a stronger driving force compared to
making a stand for your truth and therefore being an outcast. Groupthink
happens on a small scale in friendly social gathering, and it happens at
a large scale with the media and political views. See Ouija Board and
Mob Mentality.

Grow and Give
The 6 Human Needs from Tony Robbins include; Identity (Di) Validation
(De), Variety (Oe), and Certainty (Oi). The other two needs he teaches
is growing and giving. We have found these two needs to be equally as
true as the first four. The closest thing we can figure to the Meaning
of life is simply the action of growing ourselves the best we can, and
then giving out or love and abundance to others. This simple concept of
growing self and giving to others is at the core of every religion and
self help philosophy. What we like so much about what Tony teaches, is
he encourages real life, measurable, objective growing and giving. Most
people convince themselves they are growing and giving, yet they are in
the same place they were 10 years ago. Tony uses things you can measure
like your body, business, relationships, etc as a way to track real
results. Progress creates meaning and happiness.

Growth Mindset
We see Growth Mindset overlapping with the small percentage of people
that did not inherit some kind of childhood trauma from their parents
(Trauma Cycle). We also see extreme Growth Mindset from the even more
rare people who make it through the Hero's Journey. People with a
Growth Mindset simply have an internal worldview that overlaps very well
with reality, that includes all the bad. So they are never feeling
stuck, trapped, in an unfair situation, or trapped in a game they can
never win. They were either taught this by extremely rare parents, or
they had to go through hell to learn it. The Growth Mindset then asks
better questions when "unfair" challenges come up every day; How can I
learn from this? What could I do just a bit better? That person was a
bit hurtful, but helpful. I didn't get it today, I'll be back
tomorrow. I'm just starting off, I'll get better over time. What more
could I do here? See Lobsters, Fixed, and Mindset.

Grunt Brain
Referring to a Fixed Mindset person that is still the identity of the
Child and refuses to use the Scientific Method and is therefore in a
constant Panic State and Hijacking every conversation with This or That
Thinking. They only say things that every other default person of their
type also says. For example, "I can't be that type, because I'm
actually really good at XYZ."

GSP Effect
This refers to someone of an opposite type coming into an arena that is
dominated by a certain type. For example, many of the top UFC fighters
are Savior Se. GSP (George Saint Pierre) is an INFJ who used his Ni to
dominate the sport. His Se opponents didn't have an answer for his
Ni/Fe strategies and mind games. GSP would figure them out, build a
plan, and then always stay ahead of them in the ring. The point is, when
an arena is dominated by a certain trait (say Se in this example) it
eventually tips when the opposite trait figures out a niche. There
doesn't seem to be an equal balance of traits and types out there.
Rather, it seems that traits are always in flux and the numbers tip back
and forth over the centuries. For example, currently we are seeing a
dramatic rise in FF being born. The plummeting sperm counts and
testosterone in males is something science is seeing. If most people are
FF, this now makes the MM more rare (for now) See Lizards,
Orange-Blue-Yellow for another example of this.

Gun to the Head
The tactics of a Hijacker by putting the person above them in a
"you-better-do-this-for-me-or-else" situation. Everyone has problems,
bad days, etc, and that's fine. Where it crosses the line is when a
person makes someone else responsible for solving their Demons right
now. This creates a situation where no one can move forward in life
because everyone knows the Hijacker is going to put a gun to someone's
head and demand they come pay attention to them right now. If you don't
give into their demands right now, no matter what you may have going on
in your life, they will pull the trigger and attack you around the clock
until you give in.

H
undefined

Habits
A pattern of behavior that we routinely do. Common bad habits include;
sleeping in, not working out, poor eating, coping, video watching,
staying up too late, etc. We have found what James Clear teaches to be
the most effective way to build in life. Don't do what everyone else
does and set goals like they are some kind of wish list. Instead focus
on the time and place you are going to build a new habit in your life.
To really make a new habit stick you have to first process that this is
going to be for the rest of your life. So, you have to start super small
and remove as much resistance as you can. For example, don't start with
the goal of going to the gym everyday, you'll just give up. Instead,
start with doing 5 push ups each night as a minimum. Rig the game so you
can only do more over time, which is motivating, rather than always
falling short.

Happiness
Our definition of happiness is pretty much the same as what Tony Robbins
teaches. Happiness is when your inner world and outer world match up. So
for example, think of the little kid who is happy. Their inside world
wants fun time, and they get fun time, so therefore they're happy. The
teenager is not happy because they don't want pain, they are getting
pain, and therefore they are unhappy. Gary Vaynerchuk is always happy
because what he has moved his inside world to want is actual reality. So
therefore he gets up every morning, gets punched in the face with 100x
more stress and problems than you do, and yet he's happy. Reality is
working as it should be in his world. The end conclusion of the Hero's
Journey is accepting reality and becoming more Zen. Truly happy people
go even farther than just "accepting" or "putting up with" reality,
but choosing to move their inner desires to actually love it.

Hardest Function
Every person has two Demon Functions, one is activated by a Savior
Animal and one is not. The hardest Demon Function is simply the Demon
Function that is not activated by one of the two Savior Animals. A
person's hardest Function may or may not be their 4th Function. So for
some people, this can be their 2nd Function in their Function Stack.
Shannon, for example, has her hardest Function second (Demon Ni). The
Last Function is still the most triggering and painful for the person,
even if it is Double Activated. The hardest Function is not as
triggering to use, but is often just overlooked or ignored. For example,
Shannon is not freaked out by Demon Ni, she just would rather use more
Se instead. So by the time she goes to use Ni, it can be much harder to
use because it's not used as much. It is not used as much because there
is no Savior Animal demanding it to be used all day.

Hard Times, Strong Men
The old phrase is "Weak men create hard times - Hard times create
strong men - Strong men create good times - Good times create weak
men." There does seem to be a repeatable cycle throughout human history
due to the Monopoly factor. When things are hard for everyone, everyone
has to go to work to survive. This forces growth on everyone which then
produces a return of a positive pay off. When things are good, the
pressure goes down and people become weak again. During this time, those
that got ahead, will get more ahead until they have a monopoly. A very
small elite end up with everything and let the other 99% starve. This
produces bad times that lead to war, and the cycle resets itself.

This cycle happens on a small scale in our personal lives, as well as a
worldwide scale. Take the USA over the past few hundred years for
example. The country was founded in 1776 which would be the very peak of
hard times that created strong men. After the US broke away from England
they began to build their own country. From the late 1700s to the mid
1800s the strong men were creating good times, the industrial revolution
was booming. The roaring 1920s was a time where people could relax and
start to enjoy themselves. This lack of pressure led to a weaker
society. Then World War 2 started and the cycle reset itself. It was now
hard times again which forced everyone to become strong. After the war
the cycle continued with good times from the 1950s to 1990s. Then from
about 1990 to present day (2022) society started to become weak again.
Today's culture is filled with fear, blame, self indulgence, laziness,
etc. The cycle says this gets worse until about 2060 until the pressure
has nowhere else to go. Most likely some kind of war, pandemic
population, economic, or environmental collapse that will release the
built up energy and the whole system will reset itself.

This cycle seems to be very consistent, running on a 144 year cycle on
average (36 years per phase). This is very sad and scary especially if
you are part of the generation that is going to live through hard times.
We have settled for ourselves that this is not something to "resist"
rather something to accept as reality. This unstoppable cycle of death
and rebirth is how the human civilization has gotten so far. Humans are
not creatures that can naturally regulate themselves. We all run on full
blast Saviors until an outside force stops and counter balances us. This
is sad, and painful, but it's just where the human race is right now.
After much pain and sorrow, the statistical cycle predicts that the
human race will end up in a higher place a hundred years from now.

Haters, OPS
We are the ones making the huge claims, the burden of proof is on us. I
can't believe that we don't have more haters than we do. It's ok for
people to not like or disagree with us or what we are saying. What we
see most of the time is there is just a misunderstanding. Either we
aren't making something clear, or someone has misinterpreted what we
said. We also see that the online groups spread such wrong information,
that we don't even bother to try and keep up. We like to use the
negativity to separate out the children. Those that can be offended,
will be offended. Many people don't like our aggressive attitudes and
swearing. Being in touch with our own darkness is how we discovered this
damn code and got out of our own insanity. So we will always be "too
negative" for many people. We are currently not trying to please
everyone. It's not until we get to the OPS Split that we will have a
Ding-Duh-Ding version for all the Townsfolk.

Hell
A stage in the Hero's Journey where a person starts to realize that
their recurring life problems are coming from themselves. A person in
hell has high consciousness but low skills when it comes to
responsibility. Meaning, their self consciousness is becoming stronger
but they don't yet have the strength or discipline and responsibility
yet to do anything about it. For example, a person starts to wake up to
the fact that they have been neglecting and abusing their loved ones,
but don't have any social skills built up to fix this. The person who
realizes that they have been making their employer or government
responsible for their financial well being, but don't have any idea how
to build their own financial security. Hell is defined by having extreme
problems, blaming no one but yourself, and not having the skills yet to
solve them. Getting through hell takes small steps at a time, over time.
Hell is also something that the Adult never "gets out of" rather they
learn to thrive in hell and are therefore no longer afraid of it.

Hell House
In our 30s, while going through our own personal Hell, we lived in a
falling apart rental house. It hadn't been maintained in decades, the
septic tank was falling apart, sewage backed up into the house weekly,
the basement flooded regularly and it was infested with rats and mice,
etc. This was the hardest for Dave as an Observer. Year after year, we
spent our own money and time to fix up that old rental house and moved
out victorious. If we could not stop and face our fears, and fix up an
old rental house, and win at this most unfair situation, then we were
just going to play victim at the next house too. Conquering the hell
house built some of the most lifelong confidence for us.

Helpy-Helperton
A phrase often used to describe the overactive desire to help from
Savior Te types. "Can I help you with that? Here let me do it. You're
doing it wrong. If I get all this work done fast for you, will you
Fi-like me?"

Hero
The Hero's Journey is about the unconscious, irresponsible, Child going
through hard times and choosing to become the Adult (or the Alpha). The
name Hero is usually referring to someone who is in this process or who
has already made it through to freedom and abundance.

Hero's Journey
A term from Joseph Campbell and the basic outline for every successful
movie and story. In the most simplest terms, this is just the process of
the unconscious, irresponsible child choosing to become the conscious,
responsible adult. Much like the Stages of Grief, we all stay stuck in
our current easy worldviews until something shocks us awake. In the
Hero's Journey there is always tragedy that forces the person to grow
or die. Forced Alpha and the Rite of Passage is where the person has to
figure out how to start using their Demon Functions or die. There has to
be a threat of death in order for the person to really transform.
Without this fear of death, the path of less pain will always be to just
circle back to over doing your Saviors. This process of being forced out
of your current childish worldview and painfully into an updated more
objective view of reality (and therefore have to use your Demons) is
something that happens on a small and large scale. Meaning, we all have
"miniature Hero's Journeys" (or Stages of Grief) when we go through
something small that forces us to grow. Hopefully, there will also be a
few big ones in your life that really force you to drop the childish
identity and find safer grounds higher up the Social Hierarchy by
becoming a stronger adult.

Hey Guys Video
A "Hey Guys" video is referring to the first line of a video that a
burnout YouTuber posts. The video usually starts with, "Hey guys, I
haven't been making any videos in a while, so I'd thought I'd tell
you what's been going on..." They then proceed to explain how they
are getting burned out and need to take a break. We got on YouTube when
it first started in 2006 and have seen countless popular YouTubers come
and go. The recurring pattern is a creator will have the first few years
struggling, then finally have their "breakout" year where things
really start to accelerate for them. This can last for many years,
usually about 7 years. Over time, their responsibilities grow, they go
through numerous attacks, hacks, lawsuits, legal issues, and a growing
number of people that hate them. Stack this on top of their failing
health, struggling marriage, second kid on the way, etc. What used to be
"fun" and gave them "purpose" has now become an anchor of pain and
depression. They used to be able to make a successful video in just a
few days, and now it takes them weeks to produce a single video that is
mediocre at best. At this point, those that have a large goal outside of
just making videos can push through. They pivot to the next step of
their career or business and start a new chapter. For those that where
just doing videos to escape the pain of a job they hate, and only do
what they love, now feel stuck. All people eventually hit their "Hey
Guys" moment, it's always interesting to watch who grows and pushes
through, and who crumbles and is never seen again.

Hierarchy
See Social Hierarchy.

Hijacker
Someone who is in a Panic State, is grabbing for control, and is
threatening everyone around them. It's ok that there are problems,
it's ok that we all get triggered and freaked out at times. But what
sets the Hijacker apart, is the "OR ELSE" statement that they add to
the equation. Drunk on Saviors + Panic State + "or else" statements =
Hijacker. They demand that everyone listens to them or else they will
burn everything down. The Hijacker is so selfish and unconscious, that
they can't see that there are a million other problems that others are
also struggling with. The Hijacker doesn't care about anyone but
themselves and they will try to cut to the front of the line just
because they are being subjectively triggered by this problem right now.
Common phrases include; "You better listen to me, or else I'm going to
get you fired!" "You better stop doing this to me or else I'll never
talk to you again!" "You better change this policy or else I'll go on
social media and tell everyone how bad you are!" In our life and
business we understand and accept all mistakes, problems, and freakouts.
The only unforgivable sin here is the Hijacker. You can not put a gun to
someone's head and demand that they do what you say while you are in a
freaked out state.

Hippocampus
This is a set of glands in the middle of the brain that regulate spatial
awareness and memories. When we become defeated by a trama the Amygdala
gland grows and the Hippocampus shrinks. This creates a chemical
imbalance in our brains that produces a Fixed Mindset. See Lobsters.

Hiring
We have found previous experience to be the best indicator of a good
hire. What you did the last two years, really does predict what you'll
do the next two years. We have learned to work backwards from clearly
defining the job/position and then finding someone who is already doing
this. Unfortunately, desires, likeability, passion, or promises aren't
factors that make a good hire. These are all very moveable factors that
go up and down when things get hard. Only identity is going to stay
stable over time. So if a person is not already the identity of the
responsible one, this is not something we can make, train, or convince
them to be. We have unlimited demand and work here, so we are always
hiring.

Hobby Function/Animal
Referring to a person's not last Demon. So for the Standard types this
will be their 3rd Function and the Jumper types this will be their 2nd
Function. For everyone this will be their 3rd Animal. The Hobby
Function/Animal is technically a Demon but because it is not our 4th
Demon we don't have a triggering fear of it. At the end of the day of
doing your Saviors on full blast, it's pretty relaxing to slip into
that 3rd Function/Animal to relax. But because it's not a Savior, you
are not really responsible for it, so there is not alot of pressure. For
Dave, his Hobby Function is Te and he enjoys working with tribe for a
small part of the day. For Shan, her Hobby Animal is Sleep and she loves
lots of time alone in the evenings.

Homer Thomson Syndrome
When you tell someone about their type and 5 seconds later they forget.
This reference comes from the Simpsons show where Homer is in the
witness protection program and they tell him his new name is Homer
Thomson. Five seconds later they say, "Hello Mr Thomson" and he has no
idea who they are talking to. This bit continues late into the night.
The person in the moment totally understands, but then 5 seconds later
they can't even Catch a Few. For example, when you tell a Sleep last
ExxP that their type constantly asks dumb questions and won't download
the answer and they respond by asking more questions. Or you tell the
IxxJ that they will constantly over control to avoid chaos, and then
they tell you their plan to avoid more chaos. You tell the ExxJ that
they are offended by everyone, and they tell you that you are offending
them right now. Or you tell an IxxP that their type thinks they're
better than everyone and they tell you they don't have to listen to you
because you are below them. See Catch a Few.

Hoo-Raw Talk
A dilutional overconfidence in one's self and abilities. The most
extreme versions often come from the ISFPs that have a Fi-overconfident
view of themselves, combined with the desire to Se-show-off. For
example, "If you guys need help on your road trip just let me know! I
can totally show up and fix anything you guys need." Even though this
person doesn't own any tools, has never worked on a car ever, and never
picks up their phone when you call them.

How the Universe Works
This is a science series on the Discovery Channel that is narrated by
Mike Rowe. This series was very formative for us because at the time (in
our early 30s) we still believed that God created the earth in 6 days.
We were starting to see that maybe these deeper psychological forces
were real and we had been mistaking them for God and the Devil. This
series showed modern day photographs of planets and solar systems out
there that are being created right now. One by one, everything that we
swept under the rug of "God did it" was shown to be created through
millions of years, opposing forces, and statistics. This series took
away our ability to be ignorant of Evolution and modern science. Though
painful at the time, it gave us a new worldview that we could actually
start to build on.

Hulk Syndrome
When a person has Masculine Demons (Opposite of Sissy Syndrome where a
person has Feminine Demons). Having Feminine Savior Functions produces
alot of relative moveableness compared to the social norm. Henry Rollins
and Neil Degrasse Tyson are examples of people who have Feminine Saviors
and then swing into their Masculine Demons. Hulk Syndrome is the most
intense when the Demons are both Masculine, Extroverted, and the sexual
Functions (Sensory and De).

Human Mind
In an evolutionary context, this phrase is referring to the frontal lobe
of the brain as opposed to the more ancient back of the brain. The older
parts of the brain are responsible for all the same functions animals
have. Breathing, eating, reproducing, fear, pleasure, social hierarchy,
etc. The human mind, or frontal lobe, or sometimes referred to the NT
(Intuition and Thinking) parts of the brain are what separates us from
chimps. Our ability to step outside all of our ancient default urges and
critically think and imagine things. See First Farmer.

Human Needs
To crack the personality code, we overlapped Tony Robbins Human Needs
with Carl Jung's Function. Our theory was, if both men where getting
results in the real world with psychology, and they had patterns in
4's, then maybe they were seeing the same thing as each other. Tony's
needs are: Significance, Connection, Certainty, Variety plus the two
needs of the spirit: Grow &amp;amp; Give. We started by clearing away
Grow &amp;amp; Give. Tony says these two needs apply to everyone and is
what we as humans need to have meaning in our lives. Next we laid out
Tony's 4 needs and matched Carl Jung's Functions overtop of them:
1) Significance, Di (Fi, Ti)
2) Connection, De (Fe, Te)
3) Certainty, Oi (Si, Ni)
4) Variety, Oe (Se, Ne)
Overlapping the Human Needs with the Functions gave us the crosschecks
we needed to start to Objectively Type the same as each other.

Hypocrite
Doing the same behavior that one tells everyone else not to do. A
failure to follow one's moral rules and principles. Everyone is a
hypocrite to some degree, but the ExxJs and Extroverted Blasters are
higher in hypocrisy compared to the more Introverted Di types. The math
of an ExxJ (and Savior De) is to be constantly looking at other people
and not themselves. They want to be helpful, so they over extend and
help others so much they don't see that they themselves are not living
up to what they teach others. This is where Off the Record comes into
play alot. People who are being hypocritical justify it in their mind
because it was just a little bit that one time. Eventually, the
hypocrite loses all respect from the tribe and crashes and hates
themselves.

I
undefined

I
Stands for Introvert, Introverted.

I'm Special Disease
From our observations, there seems to be a genetic gene or Default
Program that tells us all the lie that we are special. You can see it in
how people take care of their health. Everyone lives their lives like
they are not the one who is going to get cancer, a heart attack, or die
today in a car accident. Yet, every minute someone dies in a completely
predictable, statistical, preventable way and they never saw it coming.
You can see it in every movie where everyone projects ourselves onto the
hero. You can see it in war games and real war where a thousand soldiers
get blown away, but the next guy is confident that he can make it. We
see it every month in Video Typing where people line up to throw
themselves into the Wood Chipper. "I know everyone else gets this
wrong, but I'm special, that won't happen to me." This belief in
being special is ironically what makes a person the most predictable.
Like lobsters in a Social Hierarchy, we all seem to be given the gene
of, "Run to the top and be the God-King and save the world with my
Saviors." I'm special disease is just another symptom of the default
Subjective mind. The way out is the Scientific Method and Objectivity.
Slowing down and asking, "Ok, I'm not special, I'm doing exactly what
everyone else is doing and can't see it. I don't want to be that loser
in the tribe. How can I catch myself here?"

I Already Know Syndrome
This is confusing the fact knowing something doesn't mean you really
know it. The person is skipping over the other 99% of taking the time to
process and download the information, then putting in the Training, then
making it part of their habitual wiring, and eventually part of their
identity.

Id, Ego, Super Ego
This is a concept developed by Sigmund Freud. To put it simply, the Id
is like the devil on one shoulder, the Super Ego is the angel on the
other, and self is the Ego in the middle. So the Id is the ancient,
aggressive, violent, sexual primal forces deep inside us. The Super Ego
is our positive potential and higher level self. What can be a bit
confusing, is we define the Ego as the aggressive self (what Freud
called the Id). And what Freud calls the Super Ego we call the Servant
side.

I Get Everything, You Get
A common behavioral pattern we see when someone of lower status is
initiating a deal with someone of higher status. This pattern of human
behavior is seen frequently on the TV show Shark Tank. What gives this
show such explosive energy is when a cocky young person who's never
done business before starts arguing with the investors. Between the 5
sharks they have well over 100 years of high level business experience,
yet this kid with a "great idea" thinks they know better than all of
them. It's not the act of negotiating or business dealing that is the
issue, it's the underlying attitude and identity that this person wants
to take it all. After seeing this (or living through it) a few hundred
times, you'll start to be able to clear away the person's Liar Words
and see what they are really saying; "Hey, so I got a great deal for
you, how about, you give me your whole company, I do nothing, you pay me
everything, I'll then cause more problems that you'll be forced to
deal with! In the end, I'll blame you for all the negativity I caused
but also take credit for all the good you did! My brain can't remember
that this is exactly what I did to the last 10 people I worked with!
I'm very sincere at this moment and believe my own liar words, so you
should too or else I'll instantly hate you, talk shit about you, and
burn you down!" The reason why people are so cocky is because they are
naively looking at the world just through their two Saviors. From the
outside, the deal looks ridiculous, but from their point of view it all
looks good to them. They can't see all the other factors that the other
person has to do, so therefore, the arrogant person genuinely thinks
they are doing the right thing.

Illuminati
We use this term to make fun of the Single Observers that often fear
some kind of master government control that is working behind the
scenes. Double Observers don't fall for this very often, as they know
that "secret information" is not that big of deal. Like all of our
fears, the Illuminati fear does seem to have some basis in reality to
some degree. Of course there are powerful rich, white men, pulling the
strings where they can. But that does not mean that they are now the
largest driving force in your life and you are a victim.

Inferior Function
An outdated term referring to the Fourth Function in the Grant Function
Stack.

INFJ
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Introvert,
iNtuitive, Feeling, Judging". This type has these Functions stacked in
this order: Ni, Fe, Ti, Se (Beta Quadrant in Socionics). The INTJ is of
the IxxJ Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
Oi, De, Di, Oe.

Information Animal
Consume and Blast are the two Information Animals. Sleep and Play are
the two Energy Animals.

Information Dominant
All types that have Consume and Blast in the top 3 Animals (and
therefore Sleep or Play last). Traits include; respecting information,
learning, teaching, good communication, not goofy. In contrast to Energy
doms, the Info doms communicate well in a conversation. They will both
listen and share in a normal, balanced way. They take information
seriously and have a "knowledge is power" view of the world. For
example, they tend to dress up and take their Linkedin profile
seriously. Their style of humor is usually done in a discussion format.
They are not generally into goofy, slapstick style humor. Think of Jerry
Seinfeld where he has an intellectual conversation picking apart some
scenario that he finds interesting and funny.

Info doms would be considered "Double Observers" when it comes to the
information of Consume and Blast, but "Single Deciders" when it comes
to Sleep and Play. Because Sleep (Double Introverted Functions) and Play
(Double Extroverted Functions) are on the poles, it's harder for them
to see themselves and the tribe. If they are Play Last, then the tribe
is seen as wildly destructive, chaotic, and hard to predict. If they are
Sleep last, then the tribe is like drugs to them and they always need to
be pinging off the tribe. This leaves their personal inside world very
underdeveloped and unknown. This is why the Info doms want to discuss
topics for hours to overwork the information because the Sleep and Play
is so hard.

INFP
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Introvert,
iNtuitive, Feeling, Perceiving". This type has these Functions stacked
in this order: Fi, Ne, Si, Te (Delta Quadrant in Socionics). The INFP is
of the IxxP Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
Di, Oe, Oi, De.

Insecure to Arrogant Swing
It is very common for many people to have Bipolar like swings of extreme
highs and extreme lows. For those who have this swing, they seem to have
this-or-that thinking when it comes to self and others. In order for
them to be good, someone else has to be bad, etc. For example, their
swings usually start with them running in wanting to save the day with
their Saviors. "Look at this thing I made, it's the greatest ever, you
guys are going to love me for it!" When they find out no one wants it,
they crash, cry, run away and say things like; "I knew it, I suck, I'm
never going to do anything good ever!" Though this trait clusters in
Deciders (IxxP, ExxJ) we see this swing in all people. It seems to be
more of a Fixed Mindset trait, rather than a type trait.

Inspector Gadget
Often used to refer to someone using their Saviors on full blast, with
other people being forced to fill in the voids. In the old 1980s
cartoon, Inspector Gadget is very much like a crazy, Sleep last, ENTP.
The show is about him fighting bad guys and solving problems with all of
his ridiculous gadgets. His niece Penny plays a very interesting role in
the series. As he is about to walk off a cliff, she will jump in front
of him and put a board down, so he doesn't die. She is constantly
filling in his Sensory blind spots and preventing him from killing
himself on the little things. He of course see's none of this, doesn't
thank her, and takes all the credit in the end. This is very symbolic of
how we all run around only responsible to our Saviors, and others have
to jump in and fill the voids.

Intelligence, IQ
We are defining IQ here as a spectrum of being able to figure out
complex information quickly. The higher IQ brain seems to be physically
wired with a higher efficiency (IQs around 140 and up). So it's not
that the rest of us (IQs around 100) can't figure out complex
information, it's just that it's going to take us longer (and we'll
probably need outside help). There are so many different types of
intelligences, but the standard IQ test is a high predictor of career
success. For example, say you found a job you enjoy alot and have been
there for 10 years. If your IQ was significantly lower, you would not
stay at the job because it's too hard. And if your IQ was significantly
higher, you could not stay because it would bore you. So what career
field a person settles in, is what they look for most in IQ testing
(because the tests may or may not get someone accurately. From typing
thousands of people we do see that IQ is a large contributing External
Factor in one's life. We are starting to see high IQ clustering in some
patterns as the data is coming in.

Internal Monologue
Studies have found that some people have an internal monologue and some
people don't. Some people have clean conversations inside their heads
where others seem to experience their inner world through feelings or
images, with little to know words. The little research we've done on
this we've seem to find that Thinking dominant types (especially
Masculine Thinking) tends to have internal monologues more. The Thinkers
describe it as endless arguing or Block Banging that they can't turn
off. On the other side of the spectrum seems to be Feelers and/or
Feminine Sensory types. They tend not to talk, argue, or block-bang,
rather than just feel what they know. They don't have to say, "this
carpet is red" they just see it, and immediately have the feeling that
they know this. We have not done alot of research in this area yet, so
this is just our first guess with the little data we have so far.

Interrelated Reliability
In statistics this is the degree of agreement among independent
observers who rate, code, or assess the same phenomenon. Technically
this is what we are doing when typing people separately and coming to
the same type as each other. What makes OPS different from all other
personality systems is its extremely high interrater reliability
numbers. See OPS Proof, OPT-100.

INTJ
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Introvert,
iNtuitive, Thinking, Judging". This type has these Functions stacked in
this order: Ni, Te, Fi, Se (Gamma Quadrant in Socionics). The INTJ is of
the IxxJ Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
Oi, De, Di, Oe.

INTP
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Introvert,
iNtuitive, Thinking, Perceiving". This type has these Functions stacked
in this order: Ti, Ne, Si, Fe (Alpha Quadrant in Socionics). The INTP is
of the IxxP Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
Di, Oe, Oi, De.

Introverted Animals
Sleep and Conume. Abbreviated S and C.

Introverted Charge
In the context of looking at the personality parts in their simplest
forms. Most of the time, when we are looking at a Function like Si for
example, we break it down into the smaller parts of the Human Need of
Oi + the Letter of Sensing = Si. But Functions can also be broken down
this way: Sensing + an Introverted Charge = Si. See Introvertism and
Core Parts.

Introverted Decider (Di)
The Human Need of Deciding, plus an Introverted Charge creates Di.
D+I=Di. The Human Need of Di is expressed through one of two Functions,
Fi or Ti. Self standards, looking to self, wanting to do it alone, wants
to be respected, fear of being like everyone else.

Introverted Feeling (Fi)
The Human Need of Deciding, plus an Introverted Charge, plus the Letter
of Feeling. D+i = Di+F = Fi. Savior Fi's are responsible to live up to
the personal standards that they value. Personal identity that is built
on intense, singular emotions that drive them like love or revenge. The
more they live up to their standards and feel good, the more the Te
tribe will bow down and do the work for them.

Introverted Functions
(Ni, Si, Fi, Ti, Sleep, Consume) Has a way, stacking, point of view,
should be, not tracking the social spectrum. Introverted Functions are
subjective and personal and only answers to the self. They do not track
or respect the Extroverted spectrum.

Introverted Intuition (Ni)
The Human Need of Observing, plus an Introverted Charge, plus the Letter
of Intuition. O+i = Oi+N = Ni. Savior Ni's are responsible to be
prepared for their personal plans in the abstract world. Building and
refining the same old abstract personal patterns. The more they are
categorically prepared in their world, the more they can keep out the
scary, random, Se (any bad physical chaos).

Introverted Observer (Oi)
The Human Need of Observing, plus an Introverted Charge creates Oi.
O+I=Oi. The Human Need of Oi is expressed through one of two Functions,
Si or Ni. Narrowing down, refining the old, sticking to what works,
perfecting before moving on, afraid of new chaos that wrecks what is
built.

Introverted Person
An Introverted person is someone who has Play or Blast (an Extroverted
Animal) as their last Animal. This includes all types with the following
Animal order: SC/B(P), SC/P(B), SB/C(P), CS/B(P), CS/P(B), CP/S(B),
BS/C(P), PC/S(B). See the Elimination Tool. Everyone Does Everything so
you can't determine who is an I/E based on what they "do". This is
where everyone goes wrong. You have to track what the person DOESN'T
do. What voids are they leaving for others to clean up? The true
Introverts go inward in times of stress, where Extroverts go outward.
Then, each type swings in the reverse. So the Introvert is going to
retreat away, get more alone time, take a break, do more research, not
get started, not communicate, not jump in, in a Savior State! Meaning,
they are naturally putting on the breaks and creating voids for others.
Others are left with the role of having to Kick Them to get started or
talk. When the Introvert swings, they will come out guns blazing in a
manic burst and blow everyone away. This "spike" is shocking which is
why they remember it and then type themselves upside down. See
Extroverted Person.

Introverted Sensing (Si)
The Human Need of Observing, plus an Introverted Charge, plus the Letter
of Sensing. O+i = Oi+S = Si. Savior Si's are responsible to be prepared
for their personal plans in the physical world. Building and refining
the same old personal physical things. The more they are physically
prepared in their world, the more they can keep out the scary, random,
Ne (any bad possibility can happen).

Introverted Thinking (Ti)
The Human Need of Deciding, plus an Introverted Charge, plus the Letter
of Thinking. D+i = Di+T = Ti. Savior Ti's are responsible to live up to
the personal standards that make sense to them. Personal identity that
is built on the search for truth and a drive to make their ideas work.
The more they build and make the best idea work, the more the Fe tribe
will bow down and share positive emotions with them.

Introverted World
Everyone really is after their Introverted Functions. Or another way to
look at it is, we are all actually Savior Sleep. Meaning, even the
PB/C(S) person is still just trying to get everything "Their" (Di)
"Way" (Oi). The Play person is just using a Dog Leg technique of doing
all the De/Oe to earn their Di/Oi. Where a true Savior Sleep person is
just going for their Di/Oi and not wasting time with doing much De/Oe.
For example, Jerry Seinfeld just walks up and says he's awesome and
doesn't feel like he has to prove it. Tony Robbins also thinks he's
awesome, but he has to prove it to you after a 50 hour seminar and
walking on fire at the end. Just like Derren Brown teaches, at our core,
we really are all the same. We all just want Power and Control. So when
typing people, do pay attention to where their Masculine and especially
Introverted Functions land.

Introvertism
Introvertism seems to be a Core Coin that is applied to other parts such
as Human Needs, Letters, Functions, all the way up to types. At the very
core of Introvertism it is working in contrast to Extrovertism. Rather
than looking at the spectrum, Introvertism is narrowing in, stacking,
has a way, says things should be a certain way, is personal, subjective,
and does not answer to the outside Extroverted spectrum.

Intuition (N)
One of the four Letters (Feeling, Sensing, Thinking, Intuition).
Intuition and Sensing are opposite of each other and are an Observing
Coin. Intuition is defined by the cognitive process of observing
something in the abstract. Imagination, theory, reminds me of,
summarizing, categories, guessing, abstract, analogies, possibilities,
understanding, jumping. See the Glossary of Coins.

Intuitive
Anyone who is Savior Intuition, Ni or Ne.

ISFJ
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Introvert,
Sensing, Feeling, Judging". This type has these Functions stacked in
this order: Si, Fe, Ti, Ne (Alpha Quadrant in Socionics). The ISFJ is of
the IxxJ Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
Oi, De, Di, Oe.

ISFP
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Introvert,
Sensing, Feeling, Perceiving". This type has these Functions stacked in
this order: Fi, Se, Ni, Te (Gamma Quadrant in Socionics). The ISFP is of
the IxxP Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
Di, Oe, Oi, De.

ISTJ
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Introvert,
Sensing, Thinking, Judging". This type has these Functions stacked in
this order: Si, Te, Fi, Ne (Delta Quadrant in Socionics). The ISTJ is of
the IxxJ Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
Oi, De, Di, Oe.

ISTP
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Introvert,
Sensing, Thinking, Perceiving". This type has these Functions stacked
in this order: Ti, Se, Ni, Fe (Beta Quadrant in Socionics). The ISTP is
of the IxxP Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
Di, Oe, Oi, De.

IxxJ
Pronounced "IJ" and is referring to all the types with the Human Need
of Oi at the top (Ni or Si as a first Function). Myers-Briggs types:
INTJ, INFJ, ISFJ, ISTJ. The life tidalwave of all IxxJs swing from over
control, followed by a crash of chaos. See OCD.

IxxJ Box
All IxxJs have a routine or mastery of knowledge they like to stay
within. They have limited knowledge and experience they keep trying to
relate everything back to. Whatever is inside this box they can control
and therefore have safe feelings of security. Going outside their "IxxJ
box" is scary and chaotic.

IxxP
Pronounced "IP" and is referring to all the types with the Human Need
of Di at the top (Fi or Ti as a first Function). Myers-Briggs types:
INFP, ISFP, INTP, ISTP. The life tidalwave of all IxxPs swing from
overconfidence, followed by a crash of self hatred. See Narcissism.

J
undefined

J (Judger, MBTI)
This is a Myers Briggs term that describes people who are; orderly,
structured, organized, rigid, on time for their appointments, and a bit
controlling of others.&nbsp; Types include ISTJ, ISFJ, INFJ, INTJ, ESTJ,
ESFJ, ENFJ, ENTJ.&nbsp; There is a strong overlap to the OPS description
of tribe-above-self (De) and plan-and-organize (Oi).&nbsp; This is
anyone who has Blast as their first Animal in the OP system.&nbsp; The
MBTI did not take in account the Jumpers so everyone who is given a
"J" in their system is assumed to be dominant in their first two
Functions.&nbsp; For example, the ISTJ in the MBTI system is assumed to
be Savior Si/Te.&nbsp; The Si giving them the plan-and-organize trait,
and the Te is giving them the tribe-above-self trait.&nbsp; But, in the
OP system we've found that about half of all types are Jumpers, meaning
they are dominant in their first and third Function.&nbsp; For example,
many ISTJs are actually Savior Si/Fi.&nbsp; This gives them the
plan-and-organize Oi trait, but does not give them the tribe-above-self
De trait.&nbsp; The P and J terms are trying to cluster too many traits
together and do not take in account for the Jumpers, and therefore it
breaks down.&nbsp; See Precevier, Myers Briggs Letters.

Jack Bauer
Dave will use this analogy when talking about how unfair life is and how
dirty you are going to have to get in order to not die. Jack Bauer is a
fictional counter terrorist agent played by Kiefer Sutherland in the
2001 TV show 24. This show was very impactful at the time as it aired
right after the 9/11 attacks. This show pushed the limit farther than
anything before it. Jack was constantly in situations where he had to
kill a best friend in order to save a school bus full of children, type
scenarios. What was so traumatizing about this show was how it opened
your mind up to how dirty you'll have to get in order to do the least
worst thing.

James Clear
We typed James a MM-Ni/Te-BS/P(C). James is very similar to Tim Ferris
and teaches much of the same things. How to stream down your systems and
build new habits. It helps so much to know that these are just new
neurological pathways that must be built. So it's going to be hard at
first and will become more automatic in a couple months if you're doing
it right. For example, we never have time to work out, so we put dumb
bells around the house to decrease procrastination. Rather than driving
all the way to the gym (who has time for that?) we can just bust out 20
reps real quick while waiting for breakfast to heat up. Another example
is Shan was not drinking enough water so she simply threw the cap away
to her water bottle. Meaning, just the 1 second resistance of taking the
cap off was stopping her from drinking water. The smallest removal of
resistance is oftimes all that is needed to allow our lazy brains to
accept the task.

Japanese Hair Guy
Dave's nickname for Michio Kaku because he can never remember or
pronounce his real name.

Jenga Blocks
Referring to the Jenga game where the blocks are stacked high and
eventually fall over as the stack becomes unstable. We use this analogy
to refer to how we all stack our worldview that has a bunch of holes in
it. The more we build up in our minds how we think and want the world to
be, the more it just comes crashing down. The Jenga block analogy is
also used to describe Introverted Functions compared to Extroverted
Functions, particularly Ti vs Te. Ti stacks blocks higher and higher and
attempts to get them to all link up together. Where Te is more like a
wide pile of blocks (wide, but not deep knowledge of how things work).

Jesus Christ
Our best guess is that Jesus was a FM-Ni/Ti-SB/P(C). Jesus had a very
clear message that he was the only "way, truth, and life" and that no
one could get to heaven except through him. Jesus taught far more about
hell and judgment than he did anything else. He had a PhD in the Problem
as we would say. He dialed in on people's repetitive patterns and gross
unconsciousness that led them down the path of destruction. He spoke in
parables (Intuitive dominant) and narrowed things down to pathways (Ni,
Observer). The SB/P(C) type in particular, with Ni tends to be the
"religious guru". Meaning, we see many self authoritative gurus being
a Ni/Xi-SB/P(C). Everyone of this type gets "answers from God".
Combine that with Jesus probably had an extremely high IQ, as well as a
Social Type that saw himself as number one. What has been fascinating
for us is to find "modern day Jesus'" out there. Meaning, we find
people of the same type and parts as Jesus and they all talk and act
much in the same way.

Jim Carrey
We typed Jim as a FF-Te/Se-PB/C(S). Jim has some of the best messages
we've ever seen on letting go of the characters we are all trying to
play. Jim became a famous movie star by doing his Saviors on crack. He
went so extreme in playing the ExxJ archetype (being whoever you want me
to be) that he finally had some breaking points. He started to step back
and ask, "Who is the real me?" No one is going to have a harder time
stepping out of Savior addictions than a Sleep last ExxJ. The fact that
Jim has swung so far in the opposite direction really shows us what is
possible. Jim still has plenty of problems in life and addictions to the
ego as he will admit... but he also has lost the ability to feel stuck
or depressed anymore. Jim really showed us what is possible, and the
crazy stuff he says is right.

Jocko Willink
We typed Jocko as a MM-Se/Te-PC/B(S). As a Sleep last ExxP, Jocko is
naturally going to have one of the hardest times with focus and
consistency. Jocko is an extreme example of someone preaching (and
living) their Demons. Jocko was in the military for many years as a NAVY
SEAL. He deployed overseas many times and served as a leader in some of
the hardest places. He's the real deal and has gone on to lead in the
business world too. Jocko teaches that discipline equals freedom and has
one of the best understandings of the Pain Equation we've ever seen. In
his mind, he gets up and does what he owes the Universe (like it or not)
and then goes and does Jiu Jitsu and surfing (what he Fi loves to do).
He has one of the best balances we've ever seen when it comes to doing
both your Demons and Saviors.

Jordan Peterson
We typed Jordan as a FF-Ne/Ti-CP/B(S). Some of the best lessons on the
Hero's Journey we've ever found are some of his earlier videos. Jordan
also understands and explains much of Jung's work. Jordan is a big
believer that we all have a tremendous darkness in our unconscious, and
part of growth is bringing that to the conscious. Jordan often cries for
all the young men that look to him for guidance. He is grieved by the
fact that all these young men don't have any encouragement in their
lives. As an Extroverted ExxP, Jordan does fall for the "government is
out to control us" trap that all ExxPs fall for. This has caused much
grief as he's overstepped his bounds at times and lashed out at the
trans community over wordage. Jordan is a walking example of what he
teaches, there is good and bad in all of us.

Joseph Campbell
Our best guess for Joseph's type is FF-Ne/Fe-PC/B(S). Joseph is famous
for his book, "The Hero with a Thousand Faces". He saw that the same
Hero's Journey story was being told over and over again throughout
history. Nowadays, many famous directors use his work and understanding
in scripting out their big movies. What is so powerful with Campbell's
work, is in our opinion, he uncovered something measurable and objective
about the human psyche. For example, movies today can be "voted on" by
how many people go and see them. This creates a spectrum of movies that
tell the story well (like Star Wars, Avatar, and the Matrix) compared to
the sucky B-list movies that everyone hates. Why are movies not random
and more subjective? What is this universal story we all somehow know?
This is a powerful concept to become more conscious of. The more you can
see who you are, where you are, and who others are in "your story" the
more you know what the next steps in life are. Do you want to keep being
the "stuck guy" or are you ready to see what's over that hill?

Jowen
A nickname referring to a male MF-Ne/Fi-CP/B(S). The name is a
combination of Owen Cook and Joe Powers (Dave's brother) both of which
are this type. A "Jowen" will be ranting about how the government and
big business all manipulate us to be "cogs in the machine". They all
fear specific, sensory, control of some kind. They are Extroverted and
will be talking in NF so they are hard to follow at times. They usually
have red hair, a beard, a bit of a Consume-Belly, and most likely
balding. They are most often extremely funny and popular with the
ladies.

Jubilee
A funny term we use that refers to the tribe validation those with Ti/Fe
are looking for. For example, "He worked really hard on the project and
everyone was so happy and praised him with jubilee!" From the outside,
everyone looks very much the same because we all want to do work that
makes the tribe happy. But for those with the Ti/Fe coin, they are
looking to see if the tribe actually has positive emotions from their
work. Whereas, those with the Fi/Te coin see it as "your problem" if
you don't like what works. The math for the Fi/Te's is something like,
"If I can make this work for everyone, then I'll be happy (and extra
credit if they happen to be happy too)!" Whereas the math for the
Ti/Fe's is more like, "If I can make this work according to my high
standards of truth, then everyone should be happy (and extra credit if
it happens to work for everybody too)." So for us with the Fi/Te coin,
we are making fun of the Ti/Fe's because from our point of view, they
don't care if the damn thing works for everyone (Te-validation), they
just care if they got their Fe-validation (jubilees!)

Judas
In the end, it's not your enemies who stab you in the back, it's one
of your closest friends. The original Judas was one of Jesus' closest
friends that sold him out for a bag of silver. Sadly, like all the
characters in the Hero's Journey, you will always have a "Judas" in
your life. Judas (or Cypher in the Matrix movie) is someone who is on
the same mission as you, but doesn't actually believe it in their
heart. They love the position of power and knowledge that your mission
provides. But once things get hard and it's time for pain and
sacrifice, they will sell you out to save themselves from one ounce of
pain. People don't mean to do it, they often times don't know they are
doing it, but someone is always doing it. So, if you are going somewhere
in life, and you have more than a few friends, one of them is a Judas.
Once the pressure heats up long enough you'll see who is who.

Judged, Judgment
The Single Deciders (IxxPs and ExxJs) fear being judged by people. They
are constantly trying to process and have a fear of people in some way.
Questions you can see them trying to process include; "What did you
mean by that? Do you think you are better than me? Do you hate me? Why
would you say that? Are you trying to stop me? How am I ever going to
find people that accept me? Why does everyone always want to hurt me?
That's not fair!"

Judgment Day
The day the Tidalwave hits because you haven't been putting in the work
the last 90 days. We all suffer from the dilution of, if we just know
what the right thing to do is, then we are ok. Mike Tyson has a famous
saying that goes, "Everyone has a plan until they get punched in the
face." What soldiers know is that when you get "punched in the face"
(your body becomes flooded with stress hormones) everything that you
"know" gets washed away. You are left with the lowest version of your
training and habits. If a person hasn't been getting up every morning
and painfully building their habits, then they are screwed when Judgment
Day hits. There is nothing you can do other than ride through this wave
and promise yourself you are going to spend the next 90 days building
habits to get ready for the next one.

Jump over Fence
An anecdote we jokingly use to point out if someone is Savior Se or not.
One thousand people with Savior Se tend to be more coordinated compared
to 1000 people who are not Savior Se. Many or even most professional
football players, gymnasts, and fighters are Savior Se. Like all
anecdotes, this is commonly misused; "I can't be savior Se, I'm
horrible at jumping over fences."

Jumpers
Someone who's Savior Functions are their 1st and 3rd Function, not
their 1st and 2nd like the Standard Myers Briggs 16 types. They are
called "Jumpers" because they jump over their 2nd Function. Our guess
is just under half the population are Jumpers. See Types, 32.

Jungian Functions
The 8 Jungian Functions are Introverted Feeling (Fi), Introverted
Thinking (Ti), Introverted Intuition (Ni), Introverted Sensing (Si),
Introverted Intuition (Ne), Extroverted Sensing (Se), Extroverted
Feeling (Fe), and Extroverted Thinking (Te). See Functions.

D
undefined

D
Stands for Decider, Deciding.

Darkness
We don't see murders, prisoners, gangsters, kidnappers, rapists,
dictators, Nazis, terrorists, etc as some "rare group of bad people."
Rather, we see that the extreme dark examples of the world only shine a
clear light on what is inside all of us. The most dangerous people to us
are the ones that delusionally lie to themselves and try to convince
themselves that they only live in the light. Those are the ones that we
see snap one day and commit something horrible and don't see it coming.
Instead, like the Apostle Paul, Carl Jung, Jordan Peterson, and Derren
Brown, we have found that accepting the darkness within ourselves is the
only path to peace. For example, if I don't know the truth (that is
I'm really capable of the most horrible acts) then I will always have
my guard down. This naivety only increases the chances of extreme
darkness taking over my life someday. Instead, if I know that I'm the
worst of the worst, then I'm going to be moving toward the light,
objectivity, accountability, teamwork, etc. This will only increase my
chances of keeping my darkness in check.

Dar State
This is a classic term from Owen Cook that is referring to the
Unconsciousness of the masses (also known as "Derper"). Someone who is
lazy, riddled with addictions, can't think for themselves, is
irresponsible, depressed, and is just looking for the next tip or trick
as they cope through life. When simple truths are dropped on them, they
just hang their mouth open and go, "Daaarrrrr?"

Dashboard, Aircraft
An analogy that represents making decisions in life based on Objective
Math rather than what you feel, think, and believe. For example, Kobe
Bryant died in a helicopter crash because the pilot was flying through
clouds and thought and felt that he was going up, when in fact he was
going down. It is very common for pilots to become disoriented while
flying through clouds, and this issue has claimed many lives. Pilots are
rigorously trained, that when they are flying through clouds, to trust
their instruments, don't trust their "gut feelings". In Kobe's case,
the pilot most likely forgot to look at the altimeter and horizon
instruments, just for a few seconds. This is representative for how we
trust our subjective point of view all the way into the ground, rather
than trusting objective math.

Dashboard, Typing
Refers to the table we often use at the end of the weekly classes to
look at one's type in detail. The typing dashboard lets us see how a
person's Functions, Needs, Animals, Sexuals, and Activation all line
up. The most useful information is where a person's Flashing Dashboard
is. This shows us what is their hardest Demon Function and their last
Animal.

DaveSuperPowers Channel
This is our first personality channel on YouTube which was started in
2010. Dave first started his radio controlled airplane YouTube channel
in 2008. Within a year he was getting over 2 million views per month and
was the first major channel for that hobby. As YouTube started filling
up, Dave knew that someday he was going to be moving towards the
personality space so he threw up the DSP channel in an attempt to
"reserve that spot". Only about 20 original videos were tossed on that
channel that just had some Myers-Briggs basics (16 types, etc). By the
time we officially started OPS in 2018 we had already built up 20k
subscribers that helped us get a jump start.

David Goggins
We typed David as a FF-Se/Te-PC/B(S). He hates running yet he is famous
for running over 100 miles at a time. He grew up in an abusive
environment and had very low self confidence. He joined the military and
pushed himself through some of the hardest positions, including becoming
a Navy SEAL. What is interesting about David's type is he is Oe, De,
and Sleep last. This type is going to have the hardest type focusing and
building self confidence over time. He has double Feminine Extroverted
Saviors with double Masculine Introverted Demons. Goggins is an extreme
example of someone who found their Demons is deciding to take charge of
his life. What we learn from him is to stop running from the darkness
and turn around and get control of it. Do something everyday that's
hard, this is where growth comes from.

DD
Stands for Double Decider.

De
Stands or Extroverted Decider, Fe or Te.

Deathbed
A term in the Hero's Journey that is the lowest point in one's life
defined by every year after this point gets better and better. Deathbed
is not just going through trauma or depression, everyone goes through
hard times. Many people die or give up on their deathbed in life and
suffer on in a state of coping. Mike Tyson, Jim Carrey, Jamie Lee
Curtis, and Shia LaBeouf, all share their story of deathbed and a
conversion. From what we see, there seems to be a certain number of
variables that all have to come together.
- The person has to have alot of ""time under tension"". Sitting at
home won't do it, they have to be in the Arena getting hammered for
decades.
- They have to run out of ""wiggle room"". All the unconsciousness
and blame has to start to dry up.
- They get caught. There is always some single event (after decades of
build up) that finally traps them.
- Nowhere to go. Can't go back to old ways (too conscious of that now).
Can't go side to side because they ran out of options.
- Have to die. Can't go up because they are weak and broke at this
point, so they either kill themselves, or surrender.
- The surrender process is a death, just not of the physical body.
Everything is let go of. Job, family, status, ego, all gone.
- There is always a going away process or time in the wilderness. This
can be rehab or just 2-4 years off the grid by themselves.
- Rebuilding after deathbed takes a few years just to be able to
""walk"" again. Building new habits out of love and gratitude rather
than ego takes time.
- There has to be Growing and Giving. Every year forward, the person
gains a bit more strength and is seen giving to others in need.
The best thing about post-deathbed, is that it is impossible for the
person to ever have anxiety or depression again. They solved it, built
an immunity to it, and know what causes it. They can step outside
themselves and finally see what leads to death and what leads to life.
They are free because they can see and every day choose to do the right
thing. Sounds magical, but this is what all of the people who have been
through it all say and live.

Death of the Father
A needed step inside the Hero's Journey. There can not be two Alphas in
one tribe. One has to die or be kicked off in order for the new one to
take their place. A Child can not fully grow up if they have an
overpowering parent figure in their lives. In order to truly grow, there
has to be a genuine void with no one else coming to help. See Forced
Alpha.

Decider, Deciding (D)
Also known as a Single Decider and Double Observer. All IxxPs and ExxJs,
anyone with Fi, Ti, Fe, or Te as a first Function. Single Deciders have
Feeling or Thinking as a first or last Function and therefore have the
Human Needs of Di and De on the poles. They tend to be "all or
nothing" when it comes to making decisions.

Decider Freakout
When a Decider (IxxP or ExxJ) is freaking out about some kind of people
issue. Their Fight or Flight nervous system has been Triggered. They
will be relatively calm about observations (control and chaos) but feel
upset and stuck over something to do with fairness, judgment, right,
wrong, bad feelings, my way vs your way of doing something, etc. When
typing people, we see the Deciders "set up" their point calmly with
observations, and then their punchline, or freakout is about them vs
others. The Decider will say extreme things when having a Decider
freakout: "I would never do this, why would they do such a thing?"
"I've been going along with what they want, and now they won't let me
do what I want!" "Why would they hurt me like this and not care? I
need to leave and find someone else who loves the real me."

Decider Functions
Introverted Feeling, Introverted Thinking, Extroverted Feeling,
Extroverted Thinking. They are abbreviated Fi, Ti, Fe, Te.

Decider Letters
Feeling and Thinking. They are abbreviated F and T.

Default Programs
Defined by any measurable, predictable, repetitive program, action, or
reaction that everyone else also does. The 9 genetic coins would be
examples of default programs. There would be hundreds of default
programs, but here are just some examples: Addiction to Saviors, Fear of
Demons, Answers from God, Anxiety, Beer Bottle Beatles, Biases, Bitch
Testing, Change the World, Catch a Few, Drinking Seawater, Nihilism,
Farises, Follow your Passion, Forer Effect, Group Think, Hijacker, Homer
Thomson Syndrome, Like and Subscribe, Limiting Beliefs, Molester Factor,
Nervous, I Get Everything - You Get Nothing, Panic State, Pharisees,
Prove it to Me, Tribalism, Popularity, Run to the Top of the Mountain,
Self Report, Sexual Drive, Social Hierarchy, Status Game, Taker, Think
its Real, Tied to the Outcome, Yelling at Squirrels, etc x 100s. The
simpler way to look at default programs is to try and work backwards and
try and find anything in the human experience that is not a default
program.

Defragment
A computer term of organizing files that we use to refer to the Sleep
Function. An old analogy to describe computer defragmenting is; picture
a library where someone is taking out books (files) reading them, and
then tossing them on the ground. Over time, the library becomes
cluttered and slow. The process of defragmenting your computer is like
picking up all the used books and putting them back where they go. This
frees up space on the hard drive. This analogy is similar to what we see
the Sleep Function do. During the day, all the chaos from the Play
energy opens up all these files in your mind that you are now constantly
trying to process in the background. Spending some time quietly alone
you can sort these out, resolve them, and free up your mind. This is
something Savior Sleep types do in a Savior state.

Delta Quadrant
A Socionics term that refers to all the types with the Functions of:
Si/Ne, Fi/Te (xSTJ, xNFP in the Myers-Briggs system).

Democracy
A form of government in which the people have the authority to vote and
decide leadership. The default human social order is to just fall into a
Patriarchy. Just go along and let the latest and loudest dominant male
get their way. Much like how the Scientific Method is a rebellion to
Grunt-Brain, so Democracy is a rebellion to the default Patriarchy. When
you see true believers in Democracy, you see someone that has a deep
understanding of just how tribal and abusive humans can get. Believers
in Democracy know they are the Worst of the Worst and want to be held
accountable and kept in check. So they move towards putting themselves
under accountability, transparency, and limited time in office. The most
dangerous people are the ones that think they are "not that bad" and
should just be put in charge because then they could really save
everyone. Every Dictator starts this way.

Demon Function
Referring to a Demon Function, Letter, Animal or Sexual Modality. There
are 9 genetic coins that we are tracking in the OP system. Every person
has one side of each coin as Savior and the other side as a Demon. For
example, if you are Demon Thinking, then you are Savior Feeling, etc.
Blame, ignorance, desire, show off, discovery, peacocking, becomes hyper
aware when they have to do them, void they are leaving for others.

Demon Possession
When we were Christians we used to do alot of study on demon possession
and supernatural hauntings. Once we started to be able to type people,
we went back and looked at many of the cases we knew of that involved
hauntings and possessions. What we saw statistically is that most people
that have some kind of a ghost or demon haunting in their house, tend to
be Savior Se. When it came to violent, aggressive, dramatic possessions
we saw that most of those cases involved people with Fe at the bottom,
most often Mas-Fe. Everybody with Mas-Fe at the bottom has some kind of
Hulk Syndrome swing once a year or so (this is normal). All those
bottled, Masculine, aggressive, animalistic, dark, demonic feelings have
to get out somehow. This is one of many reasons why we named the
non-prefered Functions "Demons" and not some watered down name. The
suppressed energy in all of us is extreme. See Ghosts.

Demon State
When a person is in a Demon state they are speaking and acting in a
heightened, nervous, insecure, or Peacocking state. They may be very
upset and negative, or they can be very happy and proud of themselves.
For example, a person with Demon Ni will say something like, "Guess
what I did! I turned off my phone, I stopped gathering, and I just went
on a walk and the answers came to me!" They will be very upset if this
was forced on them, or they will be very proud of themselves if they did
it on their own. Unlike a Savior State, this happens to them every once
in a while, not all day every day like the Saviors.

Depression
This general disorder seems to hit people in their Deciding Functions.
Feelings of regret from the past or feelings of hopelessness for the
future. Tony Robbins talks about when our inside and outside world are
congruent, and we are growing and giving, we are happy. We have found
this to be true as well. The phrase ""should be or not be this way""
is common with depression. Not saying there aren't bad things going on
externally, but something has to move in order to be happy. Either
change the outside world to match the inside world, or the other way
around, or both.

And yes, we are very aware how much a chemical imbalance can be causing
or contributing to depression. We see the body and internal trauma on a
spectrum (not one or the other). We see the people who get through
depression work on both resolving their trauma as well as balancing
their physical body (which can include medication, diet, supplements,
exercise, sleep, sauna, cold exposure, sunlight, etc).

We all get sad from painful circumstances that come our way, but
depression is like a deep sickness that sets in. Even when everything is
good externally, the feelings of depression are still there. This makes
it even harder to deal with because now you have ""no good reason""
to feel this bad. People from the outside can't understand why you
would feel so bad when you ""have it so good"". The more a person is
depressed, the more those chemical pathways carve into the brain and
body. See Bullies, Standing Up To.

Depression Beard
Most often this is referring to someone who has gone through, or is
currently going through, a very hard time. They go from a happy,
clean-shaven person, to suddenly a dark depressed person with a thick
shaggy beard. The person is suppressing their dark feelings and/or feel
like they can't share with others what is really bothering them. The
beard is used to hide from people as well as show that they are not the
same naive kid that can be pushed around anymore. Some examples include
David Letterman, Conan O'Brian, Jim Carey, and Rhett from Rhett and
Link.

Derren Brown
We typed Derren as a FF-Ni/Fe-BP/C(S). We could not have cracked the
personality code without obsessively watching all of Derren's work over
and over again. Derren shows that there are universal, predictable
forces and patterns that drive all of us. He has the ability to take
average people and unconsciously influence them to do spectacular things
like rob a bank or try and kill someone. His work is Monkey-Nap level
traumatizing if you ever really dive into what is going on. Derren
showed us that we (all humans) are moved by these Evolutionary Forces
and we love to trick ourselves into thinking we have Freewill. He also
taught us to move towards the Scientific Method because we are already
doing all the bullshit everyone else does, like; Anecdotes, Astrology,
Default Programs, Forer Effect, Personality Tests, Ouija Board, and
Subjective Typing. Also worth noting; when we see ourselves or others
get tricked or influenced unknowingly we'll say, "Oh, that person got
Derren Brown'ed."

Devil
We used to think the devil of the Bible (Satan) was a real spiritual
being who would send his demons to tempt and torment us. Sometimes,
there are so many bad things happening in life all at once, there is no
way it could be just chance. It really does feel like there is some kind
of evil force fucking with you sometimes. It's hard to see from looking
at your own life, but looking at thousands of people from the outside
things start to become clear. Now, when we see someone complaining about
how hard life is, it's impossible to not see the other 7 Functions they
are abusively neglecting. No longer is it a question of, "Why are all
these bad things happening to this person?" But rather, "How the hell
is this delusional person not having more hell inflicted on them?" The
devil, the government, your boss, the man, all personify a personal
focus of blame for us. We have no idea how much we are just getting back
the abuse we are sending out in the Universe. Some devil is a universal
shortcut for our brains to jump to and blame. See Personification.

Di
Stands for Introverted Decider, Fi or Ti.

Dictator Syndrome
Referring to a normal person who is placed in a position of authority,
is left unchecked, and begins to abuse those around them. Like a species
that no longer has any natural predators to keep in check, so an
individual grows out of control when they have no authority above them.
For example, any country that still has some form of dictatorship
suffers under the selfish control of the delusional guy at the top.
Surrounded by "yes-men" for decades, the dictator becomes drunk on
their own way, with no counter check. Like someone who has been thrown
into Solitary Confinement, the human mind goes mad when it does not have
the constant workouts of an objective environment to keep them
accountable. You can see this play out on a small scale with a boss,
parent, or community manager. Like the Milgram Experiment shows, humans
are loaded and ready to abuse those around them given half a chance.

Ding-Da-Ding
Referring to a watered down product or service that is selling the
people what they want to hear, and not actually the truth they need. The
phrase "Ding-Da-Ding" is from the baby music that is often used on
today's sales videos. Think of the Staples campaign of the "Easy
Button" for example. We see this in the personality space especially.
Businesses would rather sell to what people want, than what they need.
People at scale want fake, easy, lie-to-me, make me feel good, tell me
how awesome I am, bullshit. The extreme opposite of this would be David
Goggins, Wes Watson, Gary Vaynerchuk, and Jocko who are teaching the
cold hard truth, like it or not.

Discipline
Consistently choosing to do what you know you should do despite the
feelings of not wanting to do it. A person choosing discipline is
choosing pain now so they don't have a greater pain of regret later.
All the Alphas preach a foundational message of discipline. John
Maxwell: "Motivation gets you going, but discipline keeps you
growing." Jim Rohn: "Discipline is the foundation upon which all
success is built. Lack of discipline inevitably leads to failure." Kim
Brenneman: "Discipline is being able to force yourself to do something,
in spite of how you feel, over and over until it becomes a habit."
Jocko Willink: "If you stop looking for a shortcut and find your
discipline, and your will. Then you will find your freedom...
Discipline equals freedom."

Disclaimer Talk
Referring to the unique speech pattern of someone who is lead Play,
especially the Blast last types. Because they are both De and Oe their
minds keep jumping around to other's point of view. The lead Play will
have something they want to Di/Oi say, but they first have to take about
10 minutes jumping around and trying to cover every objection and
contradiction the tribe might have. What it sounds like is an endless
amount of disclaimers, intros, and false starts to a conversation. They
are the kings of dancing around a subject and not getting to their
point.

Disclaimer Policies
We have found in our years of business, that those that can be offended,
will be offended. After years of trying to be nice and being everyone's
friend, you just get overrun by the toxic people. This is one of the
hardest problems for every business to deal with over time. We have
found that it is never about the "current problem" rather it is 100%
of the time about the identity of the person. Are you dealing with a
person who is always creating drama everywhere in their life? Are you
just the next person they are unleashing their unresolved drama on? So,
we are discovering what every large business already knows, and that is
to continue to build up your disclaimer walls. Some people just won't
stop causing problems because they are looking for a Spank Me. And you
can't try and talk with unreasonable people face to face because of the
Zombie, Humans, Robot factor.

Disorders
A disorder is defined by a pattern of destructive behavior that stops
one from functioning in normal life. Meaning, we all have bad traits and
go through hard times. But by the end of the month or year, we are able
to "bounce back" and function again in society, even though it's
still hard. A legitimate disorder, is so extreme, is so never ending,
that it is something the person never "snaps out of". It's like they
are "stuck in a gear" and can't get out of it. Many extreme disorders
are from birth, some from accidents, and some develop over time. What we
are seeing in our research is that certain disorders very much cluster
according to type. Meaning, if you have a "disorder" the chances are,
many (or most or even all) people of your same or similar type also
struggle with the same disorder to some degree. So for example, a person
who is FF-Ne/Te-PB/C(S) does exhibit all the symptoms of someone
diagnosed as ADHD. Out of the thousands of people we've typed, 100% of
the people of that same or similar type exhibit extreme ADHD behavior
(most of which have been formally diagnosed with ADHD as well).
Disorders such as Bipolar, Narcissism, OCD, and ADHD perfectly overlap
with what we are defining as Savior imbalances and tidalwaves for the
ExxJ, IxxP, IxxJ, and ExxP respectively.

Dividing Line
The entire OP system is based around the fact that there are at least
two separate people arriving at the same conclusion 60-90% of the time.
This has never been done before in any personality system, and we
encourage critics to try it. Take the two best people of your system and
have them type 20 people independently, and see that they can't break
the 40% mark. The only way to get those kinds of numbers is that you
have to be measuring something in objective reality. Either a person
understands, believes, and respects that, or they don't. This is the
dividing line. At this point there are many people in the class who are
also getting the same type at a consistency rate of 60% or more. We have
a third person in training and they are also able to get 60% and above.
The second pillar of the OP system is that types are then logged into
docs and the data builds up over time. Once we have 10-50 people of a
specific type, patterns start to emerge. Face structure, hair color,
body type, disorders, political views, careers, spouse, pets, cars they
drive, etc. The predictability factor goes through the roof. So, in
conclusion, it is impossible to get the same type out of 512, 90% of the
time, for thousands of times, unless we are tracking something
objective. The whole goal of a personality system is to achieve
predictability, and the amount of predictability we have is frankly too
much and still hard for us to process. Nothing anyone says is "real"
anymore. Everyone says the same things everyone else of their type also
says.

Dog Energy
Constantly letting out small bits of negativity towards the tribe
followed by a swing of running away and crying. Like a dog, there is a
constant barking at the tribe, but once you push back, they whine and
run away. "All bark with no bite" is a common saying attributed to
this behavior. Both the FM &amp; MM have a Masculine Extroverted Decider
and a Feminine Introverted Decider. The way the energy seems to flow is
that Mas-De is constantly putting pressure on the tribe and seeing where
they need to grow. Negativity is externalized for the "dog" because
their Fem-Di is seen as weak, moveable, and something that should be
protected. Look for where a person is putting the pressure, on
themselves (Cat, FF, MF) or others (Dog, FM, MM)? See Cat Energy.

Dog for a Walk
A tactic used in Dog Training to get the unowned energy of the child
moving. Just as a good dog owner knows they have to take their dog for a
walk everyday, so does a good Adult or manager know they have to deal
with the energy of those underneath them. The Child doesn't know how to
manage all their built up negative energy of life and then blows up with
Tidalwaves. The unowned energy of the child now falls on the person in
charge (see Forced Alpha). For example, this could be a parent
scheduling time each day to play with their kid, or a boss scheduling
time for their employees to vent their complaints. Rather than waiting
for your drama friend to call you at 2am every weekend, take them on
consistent walks ahead of time and get their built up energy out. This
really does work, and now you can sleep all night.

Dog Leg
The term dog leg is usually referring to moving in one direction, but
then pivoting in another. The context we mostly use this in, is
referring to how all Observers are actually Deciders. Meaning, Deciders
work in a straight line. They are trying to process people issues, they
talk about people issues, and they are trying to work on people issues.
The Observers on the other hand, also care most about people issues, but
they pivot, distract, or dog leg and talk about Observations too. The
Observers are still trying to work out people issues, they just take a
less direct route and also use Observations. "If I just found the best
pathway ever, then everyone would like me." This can also be used in
the context of how everyone is after their Introverted Functions. The
Savior Sleeps are more honest and just go after their Di/Oi without much
De/Oe expenditure of energy. Where, the Savior Play types will do alot
of De/Oe in order to "earn" their Di/Oi. So in a way, we are all
Deciders and we are all Savior Sleep.

Dog Shooing
The act of swatting away a problem in the moment only for it to come
back right away. For example, we see a large percent of people literally
doing this with their dogs. Their dog will bark and they will then bark
back at the dog, "Stop it!" There is no training, no discipline, no
systems put into place to actually start to solve this problem over
time. This behavior is happening everywhere in the person's life.
Rather than solving issues, they just smack at them in the moment...
forever. See One to One.

Dog Training
The conscious act of training a person without them consciously knowing.
For example, the warehouse managers at Amazon have consciously figured
out how to unconsciously train the workers. Everything is pre-thought
out, automated, and push-button. The worker doesn't have to think,
guess, make a decision, or have any idea what actually needs to be done.
All they need to do is follow the cues given and then a green light that
says "job well done". A child doesn't know or understand why the
parent is giving the instructions. All they know is they get pain if
they go this way and pleasure if they go that way. The Universe also
"dog trains" people over the decades. Look at all your older friends,
family, and neighbors. They have all been beaten down in life and don't
have much fight left in them. The Universe has taught them you get pain
if you do too much of this, and just enough pleasure if you use that to
cope. Now, the person doesn't have any conscious idea of how or why
their life is this way, but they have been trained nonetheless. See
Sucker in the Room.

Dominance Hierarchy
See Social Hierarchy.

Dominant Function
Another term for the First Function in the Function Stack.

Donald Hoffman
We typed Donald as a FF-Ti/Si-SC/P(B), the same type as Bill Nye and
Elon Musk. Donald believes that reality is not what it seems and we are
all living in our own perception of reality. What is interesting, is we
see a clustering of people who are Savior Ti/Si also believe something
along the lines that we are "living in some kind of simulation".
Anyway, Donald showed us a really big breakthrough and that is to
understand the differences between "seeking truth and reality" and
"seeking fitness payoffs". It turns out, we are more driven by binary
programs that help us avoid pain and seek pleasure (food, status, mate,
etc). Evolution doesn't care if we align with reality or not, it only
cares that your species moves forward. This is where the Beer Bottle
Beatle example comes in. The illusion that we are freewill spirit beings
who seek reality just breaks down more and more. We are made up of lots
of binary programs in order to avoid our subjective version of pain and
seek pleasure... just like ants and squirrels.

Donald Trump
We typed Trump as a MM-Se/Ti-CP/B(S). Trump is very unlike most of the
guys we've typed of the same type (see Disorders). He has all the same
"parts" of people his type (Observer, MM, Di, Play, etc) but has a
legitimate case of narcissism or something like that in our opinion.
Trump is also one of the best examples we've seen of someone who sees
themselves as a "Number 1" Social Type. Trump has been a real case
study for us to watch over the years, as he just bluntly says out loud
what we are all thinking and feeling at times. He is one of the best
examples of how and why Democracy saves us from those drunk with
Dictator Syndrome. As dilutional and unconscious as Trump is, we believe
he really is trying his best to help the country and others. His ability
to get hard shit done is unmatched because he leans into challenges with
the full force of his masculine energy. The problem is, he has no
authority outside himself. He doesn't seem to understand Democracy or
why it is there. He sees himself as the greatest guy ever and not
another human that needs to be kept in check. A good example of the
dangers of not seeing yourself as the Worst of the Worst.

Done-Do-Tings
This is a phrase we use to make fun of the Savior Te's where they run
around doing random things for validation. "If I done-do-duh-tings will
you guys like me?"

Doppelgangers
See Type Twins.

Double Activated
In regards to looking at someone's type on their Dashboard. Double
Activated is when a Function is getting Pinged by 2 of the top 3
Animals. For example, Shannon who is Te/Se-PC/S(B) is Double Activated
on her Se because her Savior Play and Savior Consume are both pinging
her Se.

Double Blind
Sometimes referring to two people typing in separate rooms. See
Interrater Reliability.

Double Decider
All IxxJs and ExxP, anyone with Si, Ni, Ne, or Se as a first Function
(also known as a Single Observer). Double Deciders have Thinking and
Feeling as middle Functions and therefore the Human Needs of Di and De
in the middle (F and Te in the middle). This gives them the ability to
easily go back and forth on these Functions. They do not have "missing
information" when it comes to people. They can see, to some degree,
eventually on their own, how themselves and others are both good and
bad. Double Deciders will talk back and forth from their point of view
and others in a fast, obvious state. This doesn't mean a person
doesn't have problems in these areas, it just means that they can go
back and forth and see others point of view, and therefore not feel
stuck with people.

Double Feminine
FF, or Feminine Sensory and Feminine De. This type has Tester and Visual
as their top two Modalities.

Double Masculine
MM, or Masculine Sensory and Masculine De. This type has Kinesthetic and
Audio as their top two Modalities.

Double Observer
All IxxPs and ExxJs, anyone with Fi, Ti, Fe, or Te as a first Function
(also known as a Single Decider). Double Observers have Sensing and
Intuition as middle Functions and therefore the Human Needs of Oi and Oe
in the middle (S and N in the middle). This gives them the ability to
easily go back and forth on these Functions. They do not have "missing
information" when it comes to information (pathways, technology,
government, things, etc). They can see, to some degree, eventually on
their own, how control and chaos are both needed. Double Observers can
jump back and forth from Oi-narrowing in, to Oe-jumping around in a fast
obvious state. This doesn't mean a person doesn't have problems in
these areas, it just means that they can go back and forth and not feel
stuck when it comes to information, pathways, control/chaos, etc.

Douchebag
A nickname for the Sleep and Blast types (SB, BS, especially with
Consume last). These types always have a Scam or some system they have
simplified things into. Due to their overactive organizing and teaching
energy, they can't help but "preach" when they talk. Because these
types refuse to Consume enough, their message always sounds shallow and
cheezy. They often neglect their own physical health and/or appearance
so it's hard to take them seriously no matter how profound their
message is.

Drama Amplifier
Someone who is always finding the worst in a situation. They then
amplify small problems and force others to get involved and solve it for
them. Making a "mountain out of a molehill" is a common phrase that
best describes this behavior. They create Contradictions out of the
simplest things. No matter how many problems you sort out for them,
there is always another "monster" waiting around the next corner. This
forcing of others to Babysit them takes the pain off of themselves for
the short term, but moves them lower on the Social Hierarchy in the long
term. See Hijacker and Fixed Mindset.

Drama Distiller
Someone who is always finding a way to simplify, solve and find
positivity in a situation. Rather than letting their default writing of
"freakout and complain" take over, they have trained themselves to be
Growth Mindset. They set standards outside of themselves to hold
themselves accountable. They are often the Adult in a social group and
therefore move up the Social Hierarchy.

Drink 8 Ounces of Water
A phrase we often use that means we are aware of the basic, common sense
steps. Another form of using, or making fun of disclaimers we have to
say. You will see this in your own life, when you attempt to start to
talk about something that is controversial and/or has many moving parts
and complexity to it. There is always that person who wants to knock
down the conversation and make you spell out and admit to all the lower,
obvious, commonly known parts first. For example, if a person has a
headache and you tell them they might need to drink more water, they
will ask you, "How much water? How often? What kind of water?" If you
mention that ADHD tends to cluster in types with Oe, Play, and Sleep
last, they will say something stupid like, "So you are saying you
don't believe disorders are real and I should not take my medication?"

Drinking Seawater
When the pressure gets to be too much, and we know what the solution is,
but we don't want to do it because the solution itself is too painful.
Like lost sailors turning to seawater because of uncontrollable thrust,
we all give in and do something stupid, hoping it will help. This is the
same mechanism of the Panic State. We are under extreme pressure, don't
have the strength and habits built up, so our minds go into a Hijack
state and grab for some random all-in-one-should-be-solution. If you
haven't built up the David Goggins level Habits ahead of time, once
it's Judgment Day, your brain will just quit and jump for something
stupid... which only makes it worse.

Drinky Time
A funny phrase we yell out when we see a Consume last take a drink while
someone else is talking. We see a pattern clustering with Consume lasts
where they will drink something at an inappropriate time. They can be in
the middle of a podcast interview, and they'll reach for their soda and
just start chugging. They are literally unconscious about consuming as
well as they get restless when they have to listen to others.

Drunk on Saviors
Doing Saviors non stop, full blast, and drowning in the consequences of
not doing Demons and being completely oblivious. Everyone on the outside
is watching in shock as this person cranks up their Saviors more and
more.

Dunning Kruger Effect
This is a cognitive bias where people who know the least about a subject
think they know the most. Ironically, the more you know, the more you
start to realize just how much you don't know (see images). This is
something you can see very much in the personality community when it
comes to learning the Typing Process. People go from, "Oh yeah, I
totally know how to type, I'm an INFJ, it's so obvious!" To, "Oh
god, I could be any type, I just keep spinning in circles. From what we
see with the people here, it takes about 2 years of hard training to
begin to type at the 60% mark. It gets so much worse before it even
begins to get a little better. See Unconscious Competence.

Dying Cat Syndrome
When a person is hurt or depressed and rather than moving towards others
for help, they hide away. From our observations, humans, like cats and
Lobsters, seem to have a "self destruct" program built in. When people
fall too far and feel hopelessly defeated, the Hippocampus shrinks and
our Amygdala grows. This seems to be what Growth and Fixed Mindset is
picking up on.

E
undefined

E (Extrovert)
Stands for Extrovert, Extroverted.

E-Myth
One of the best selling books on business of all time. The author,
Micheal Gerber is a FM-Si/Te-BS/C(P) and explains why scaling a business
needs to be a priority from the start. He uses the McDonalds brothers
and Ray Kroc as an illustration. The McDonalds brothers wanted to do
what everyone does and that is make burgers One to One. The more
customers, the more they had to work. Because of ego issues, most
business owners couldn't get past this stage. Ray Kroc encouraged the
brothers to think bigger, build systems, scale, and franchise their
business. They took principles from Henry Ford on how to simply and mass
produce in large quantities and lower the price. For us, when we are
talking to business owners, one of the first things we look for is which
side of E-Myth are they on? Are they still in the kid stage where they
are trying to do everything themselves, or have they broken down and
accepted E-Myth?

Eat Your Vegetables First
Refers to doing the hard work first that you don't want to do, before
you run to the fun stuff. In reference to Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs
and Discipline.

Ed Mylett
We typed Ed as a MM-Te/Si-BP/C(S). Ed is a self made multi-millionaire
and powerful public speaker. As an ExxJ with Fem-Fi, Ed grew up very
insecure and low self-confident. As Ed went through his Hero's Journey
in life, he developed one of the greatest understandings of how to build
self confidence. He uses an analogy of a thermostat and says if you are
set to 70 degrees, no matter how good things get, you'll always come
back down to a 70. He became conscious of raising his self standards by
making and keeping little promises to himself. He says that to get super
confidence, always do one more. So if you promised yourself 10, do 11.
My favorite quote from Ed is, "Any mistake you make more than once is a
decision." Ed has helped us so much raise our standards by practically
setting little goals and standards that we keep for ourselves.

Ego
Our current definition for the ego is that it is a deep, selfish, primal
program that drives us to kill off others so we can make it to the top
of the Social Hierarchy and spread our seed. The ego is that voice
inside our heads that whispers things like, "They don't understand
you, fuck them. You'd be better off going out on your own. You don't
deserve this, burn them down and make them pay. They'll see, once
things change, I'll be on top." Our ego creates devils and demons so
we can blame them, even though the violence is coming from the ego. The
greatest trick of the ego is it hides inside us and tells us that it is
us. The ego hijacks our default programs and uses them to get what it
wants. "I want to make it to the top so I can help others." No you
don't. The ego is using that in order to get you to get to the top so
you can have the power. The Venom character in the Marvel comics is a
good representation of the primal ego inside all of us. The opposite of
the ego is the Servant.

Ego Death
Our current understanding is that we are all born addicted to the long
list of Default Programs we were born with. The environment then
reinforces and shapes our behaviors and identity on top of these genetic
forces. So by the time we are 10-20 years old, we have settled on some
view of self, others, and how the world works. Many people who have gone
through ego death describe the first half of their life as playing a
character. A character that is just running off of pre-programmed,
predictable patterns. "In order to avoid pain, and get people to like
me, I do XYZ."

With enough life experience, consciousness, and responsibility, some
people have a "breaking point" and are able to step outside this
character they have been playing. They are able to see that they are
just running off of default programs and bad habits they've collected
over the years. No longer do they go on long self-reports of how bad
they have it and how they are a victim. They can start to see that they
are the recurring largest factor in the repetitive problems in their
life.

For some, this ego death happens in a single traumatizing event (after
years of build up). And for others, their awakening happens slowly over
the years. For most people who have gone through ego death, they can all
point to a period of time where they were addicted to the destructive
default programs, and then another point in time where they could step
outside them. Those who have gone through ego death also talk about how
they have to fight against the old ways every day. Just because you can
now see these destructive patterns, doesn't mean you are instantly free
from them. But, being able to see them most of the time, is the first
step to being free. This just takes many decades for most people. Jim
Carey is an example of someone who has gone through ego death.

Elephant and Rider
There is an ancient analogy that describes our small little conscious
part of our mind as a rider on top of an elephant. You may "think" you
are in control of you and know who you are, but you are conveniently
forgetting all of the unconscious urges and programs. For example, we
all say things with our Human Mind like, "You shouldn't drink and eat
junk food, exercise, and don't watch too many videos late at night."
And yet, almost no one can live up to what they know if right, even half
the time. The Child says with their Liar Words, "Oh yeah, I can do
that!" and then are totally surprised when their elephant comes and
wrecks it later. You are NOT that little 10% of conscious mind you think
you are. You are the grand total of ALL your programs, 90% of which you
are unconscious of and don't have the discipline built up to control
them even if you saw them. The Adult is just aware of how unaware they
are. This is where Goals, Standards, and Discipline are used in an
attempt to unite their rider and elephant.

Elimination Tool
This tool was created by Shannon and we use it in our class videos as
well as typing clients. The tool has the 9 Genetic Coins on it as well
as a brief description of each definition. When typing clients each day,
we use the Elimination Tool with the Type-A-Tool, especially when we are
training new staff members. The Elimination Tool works best when a lower
coin jumps out at you right away. For example, you open a person's
video and you see that they are talking at 100 mph for 2 hours straight.
You have no idea if they are an Observer or Decider, or Di or De, all
you eliminate is that they are NOT an Introvert (someone with Play or
Blast last). For some people, we work backwards and eliminate all the
parts they are not, and others we work forwards using the Type-A-Tool.

Elixir
In the Hero's Journey, the hero starts off as a weak, selfish, Child
that can't even take care of themselves. By the end of their journey,
they come back to the normal world as a transformed Adult. They now are
more conscious and responsible and not only take care of themselves, but
also give to others. The elixir is a symbol of some type of tool,
knowledge, or item that they can now pass on to the people. For example,
when Bruce Wayne went to a Chinese Prison, he came back as a tool the
city could rely on to fight crime. When Einstein was thrown into dark
times with World War 2 and other personal challenges, he came back with
equations that changed the world forever. When Gary V was sent to his
dad's wine seller as a teenager, he came back with the ability to sell
and share his passion. When Wes Watson went to prison for 10 years, he
came back with a growth program which he uses to help thousands of
people. If you're going to go through hell, make it worth it and come
back with something to show for it.

Elon Musk Interview
Elon has found an extremely useful tactic to help weed out a Bullshitter
in his hiring process. He will ask the person to tell him about a great
accomplishment they've done in life. The bullshitter can't go into
much detail or explanation of the process because they were pretty much
along for the ride at the time. Most likely, they were a "helper" and
someone else was responsible for driving the project forward. Those that
are truly responsible for big accomplishments can talk all day about the
ins and outs, contradictions, and challenges of trying to get something
to work. The lesson I take away is, those who are truly responsible will
have that wealth of consciousness hidden under the surface. This is a
genius way to see who is who.

Energy Animals
Sleep and Play are the two Energy Animals. Consume and Blast are the two
Information Animals.

Energy Dominant
All types that have Sleep and Play in the top 3 Animals (and therefore
Consume or Blast last). Traits include; respecting energy, time, fun,
working, resting, and getting things done. Compared to the Info doms,
the Energy doms work well at getting things done. "Work hard, play
hard" is their motto. They prefer to dress cozy and will wear
sweatpants a socially inappropriate amount of time. Their style of humor
is more on the pie-in-the-face, goofy, slapstick, low brow type of
humor. Think of Larry David where he is yelling insults and throwing
things and then runs away and takes a nap.

Energy doms would be considered "Double Deciders" when it comes to
seeing self (Sleep) and the tribe (Play). But "Single Observers" when
it comes to knowing the Consume and Blast of information. The Energy
doms would rather skip a conversation and just go work on the thing and
then rest, then have to have real back-and-forth conversation with
others. The Consume last already feels like they know more than enough
and are bursting with confidence to just go get started. The Blast last
feels like they have more info than everyone else, no one is listening
to them, and they still need more info, so why share anything? Both
Energy dom types prefer to be left alone so they can go work and then
rest later. This builds up a massive void with the information and it
comes crashing down when they realize they have been wasting their work
hours on a project that they don't even have all the info on. Because
they feel calm with spending energy, they'd rather just go redo the
work and/or rest more, than to ever have a back-and-forth conversation.

ENFJ
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Extrovert,
iNtuitive, Feeling, Judging". This type has these Functions stacked in
this order: Fe, Ni, Se, Ti (Beta Quadrant in Socionics). The ENFJ is of
the ExxJ Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
De, Oi, Oe, Di.

ENFP
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Extrovert,
iNtuitive, Feeling, Perceiving". This type has these Functions stacked
in this order: Ne, Fi, Te, Si (Delta Quadrant in Socionics). The ENFP is
of the ExxP Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
Oe, Di, De, Oi.

Enneagram
A popular personality system that uses 9 personality traits/types. Often
what we see is people will choose their Myers-Briggs type and also add
on their Enneagram type. For example, someone who identifies as an INFJ
and Enneagram type 6 could use the label of INFJ-6. Most Enneagram users
also add on "wings" that just mean they tend to lean towards the
number type just to the right or left of their preferred number. For
example, the INFJ-6 can be an INFJ-6w5 or INFJ-6w7. We find the
Enneagram is a great way for people to express to others how they feel
or see themselves. But unlike traditional science, the Enneagram isn't
something that can be scientifically measured or verified. Without using
binary coins, it's hard to not fall into the Forer Effect as these
non-binary terms can apply to anyone.
1) REFORMER, Rational, idealistic, principled, purposeful,
self-controlled, perfectionistic
2) HELPER, Caring, interpersonal, generous, people-pleasing, possessive
3) ACHIEVER, Success-oriented, pragmatic, adaptive, excelling, driven,
image-conscious
4) INDIVIDUALIST, Sensitive, withdrawn, expressive, dramatic,
self-absorbed, temperamental
5) INVESTIGATOR, Intense, cerebral, perceptive, innovative, secretive,
isolated
6) LOYALIST, Committed, security-oriented, engaging, responsible,
anxious, suspicious
7) ENTHUSIAST, Busy, fun-loving, spontaneous, versatile, distractible,
scattered
8) CHALLENGER, Powerful, dominating, self-confident, decisive, willful,
confrontational
9) PEACEMAKER, Easygoing, self-effacing, receptive, reassuring,
agreeable, complacent

ENTJ
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Extrovert,
iNtuitive, Thinking, Judging". This type has these Functions stacked in
this order: Te, Ni, Se, Fi (Gamma Quadrant in Socionics). The ENTJ is of
the ExxJ Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
De, Oi, Oe, Di.

ENTP
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Extrovert,
iNtuitive, Thinking, Perceiving". This type has these Functions stacked
in this order: Ne, Ti, Fe, Si (Alpha Quadrant in Socionics). The ENTP is
of the ExxP Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
Oe, Di, De, Oi.

ESFJ
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Extrovert,
Sensing, Feeling, Judging". This type has these Functions stacked in
this order: Fe, Si, Ne, Ti (Alpha Quadrant in Socionics). The ESFJ is of
the ExxJ Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
De, Oi, Oe, Di.

ESFP
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Extrovert,
Sensing, Feeling, Perceiving". This type has these Functions stacked in
this order: Se, Fi, Te, Ni (Gamma Quadrant in Socionics). The ESFP is of
the ExxP Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
Oe, Di, De, Oi.

ESTJ
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Extrovert,
Sensing, Thinking, Judging". This type has these Functions stacked in
this order: Te, Si, Ne, Fi (Delta Quadrant in Socionics). The ESTJ is of
the ExxJ Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
De, Oi, Oe, Di.

ESTP
In the Myers Briggs system, these letters stand for "Extrovert,
Sensing, Thinking, Perceiving". This type has these Functions stacked
in this order: Se, Ti, Fe, Ni (Beta Quadrant in Socionics). The ESTP is
of the ExxP Temperament and has these Human Needs stacked in this order:
Oe, Di, De, Oi.

Everybody can do Everything
See Anyone can do Anything.

Evolutionary Forces
Any ancient, universal force that is often attributed to being
deliberate by another social group. The illusion that there is a "devil
behind the scenes" when in reality, it's just market forces. For
example, the mainstream news is often accused of wanting to control the
population using fear. When in reality, the largest force at play is,
humans are far more curious about violence than positivity. This is why,
no matter how much good is going on, we can't stop the urge to slow
down and look at a car wreck. When given a choice to watch positively at
scale or the latest violence, the far majority of people will be drawn
to the violence. Now, what becomes sinister is that the news companies
know this about human nature and exploit it to make more commercial
sales. Being upset at the news companies is only addressing the
symptoms, where the deeper cause is in human nature. Meaning, get
channel 5 to stop exploiting people, and now channel 7 will do it even
more. This evolutionary force has been around for thousands of years and
will be around for thousands more. So things aren't going to
dramatically change in our lifetime, no matter how much we attack the
latest symptoms. Other examples of deep evolutionary forces include;
enslaving each other, fear of the government, sales tactics, monopolies,
racism, sexisim, animal rights, and Cancel Culture.

Evolutionary Psychology
Classically defined as the study of behavior viewed through the lens
that human behaviors reflect the influence of physical and psychological
predispositions which helped human ancestors to survive and reproduce.
Unfortunately, as we were Losing God, we found this view on reality to
be more and more consistent with the data. When we were discovering the
personality code, we kept trying to force it to work with a theistic
worldview. Once we tried interpreting the data through the lens of
evolutionary psychology, everything started to accelerate and work.
Meaning, we could not predict people's behavior if we kept adding into
the math some kind of external, spiritual, Middleman force. Once we saw
that humans are just another species that is motivated by pain and
pleasure, only then could we type people and be able to have such high
predictability.

Existentialism
Classically defined as a philosophical approach that accepts Nihilism to
some degree, but believes that it is up to the individual to find or
create their own meaning. From an Evolutionary Psychology point of view,
humans are like all other animals. We are made up of predictable
programs that give us the subjective view of Free Will. When looking at
a species from the outside, you can see just how predictable they really
are. This is scary at first, but then becomes the path to true freedom
and meaning. We believe positive existentialism was needed in order for
us to see the personality code and also the Hero's Journey.

External Factors
There is more to a person than just their 512 personality type. When
building the future Profiles and we start to process thousands of people
for just one type, we will be sorting them according to their external
factors. For example, whatever your type is, it's the people that have
the most external factors in common with you that are going to be your
true Type Twins. So far, relevant external factors include in no
particular order: Upbringing, parents, birth order, location, culture,
religion, neighborhood, friends, social class, race, looks, generation,
time era, Intelligence, mindset, etc. For us, the two biggest external
factors we see and use are Social Types and Mindset.

Extroverted Animals
Blast and Play. Abbreviated B and P.

Extroverted Charge
In the context of looking at the personality parts in their simplest
forms. Most of the time, when we are looking at a Function like Se for
example, we break it down into the smaller parts of the Human Need of
Oe + the Letter of Sensing = Se. But Functions can also be broken down
this way: Sensing + an Extroverted Charge = Se. See Extrovertism and
Core Parts.

Extroverted Decider (De)
The Human Need of Deciding, plus an Introverted Charge creates Di.
D+I=Di. The Human Need of De is expressed through one of two Functions,
Fe or Te. Including others, seeing everyone's point of view, helping
the little guy, doing it together, needing permission, being held back,
not allowed.

Extroverted Feelings (Fe)
The Human Need of Deciding, plus an Extroverted Charge, plus the Letter
of Feeling. D+e = De+F = Fe. Savior Fe's are responsible to help the
tribe on the emotional, value spectrum. Caring and connecting with tribe
on an emotional level, aware of the tribe's values on a spectrum. The
more they care about the tribe and make them happy, the more someone
will come do the Ti work for them.

Extroverted Functions
(Ne, Se, Fe, Te, Blast, Play) Openness, does not have a way, channel
changing, tracking the social spectrum. Extroverted Functions are
responsible to keep track and respect the social spectrum.

Extroverted Intuition (Ne)
The Human Need of Observing, plus an Extroverted Charge, plus the Letter
of Intuition. O+e = Oe+N = Ne. Savior Ne's are responsible to explore
more understandings in the abstract world. New, random, abstract
possibilities and connections in the outside world. The more they
discover new connections and understandings, the more they can get away
from the Si control.

Extroverted Observer (Oe)
The Human Need of Deciding, plus an Extroverted Charge creates Oe. O+e =
Oe. The Human Need of Oe is expressed through one of two Functions, Se
or Ne. Gathering in new, trying all the options, always looking for
more, afraid to be narrowed down or controlled.

Extroverted Person
An Extroverted person is someone who has Sleep or Consume (an
Introverted Animal) as their last Animal. This includes all types with
the following Animal order: SB/P(C), CP/B(S), BS/P(C), BP/S(C), BP/C(S),
PC/B(S), PB/S(C), PB/C(S). See the Elimination Tool. Everyone Does
Everything so you can't determine who is an I/E based on what they
"do". This is where everyone goes wrong. You have to track what the
person DOESN'T do. What voids are they leaving for others to clean up?
The true Extroverts go outward in times of stress, where Introverts go
inward. Then, each type swings in the reverse. So the Extrovert is going
to reach out to people, talk things out, get other points of view,
gossip, research, and not process, resolve, rest, or recover in a Savior
State! Others are forced to run from them because they are so draining
and abusive. When the Extroverts swings, they crash and sleep all
weekend. The Extrovert becomes the biggest Introvert ever, once a month
in a Demon crash. This drama is shocking to them which is why they
remember it and then type themselves upside down. See Introverted
Person.

Extroverted Sensing (Se)
The Human Need of Observing, plus an Extroverted Charge, plus the Letter
of Sensing. O+e = Oe+S = Se. Savior Se's are responsible to explore
more experiences in the physical world. New, random, physical
possibilities and experiences in the outside world. The more they learn
and experience new facts, the more they can escape the Ni cause and
effect consequences of control.

Extroverted Thinking (Te)
The Human Need of Deciding, plus an Extroverted Charge, plus the Letter
of Thinking. D+e = De+T = Te. Savior Te's are responsible to help the
tribe on the rational, get-it-done spectrum. Caring and connecting with
the tribe by getting things done. The more they do all the work for the
tribe, the more someone will come and Fi love them.

Extrovertism
Extrovertism seems to be a Core Coin that is applied to other parts such
as Human Needs, Letters, Functions, all the way up to types. At the very
core of Extrovertism is working in contrast to Introvertism. Rather than
looking inward at your personal, subjective, point of view, Extrovertism
is looking outward at the more objective point of view. What are others
doing? What's working for them? What do others like? What kinds do they
have? Are there better ones? Which is the best and worst? Does that make
sense?

ExxJ
Pronounced "EJ" and is referring to all the types with the Human Need
of De at the top (Fe or Te as a first Function). Myers-Briggs types:
ESFJ, ENFJ, ESTJ, ENTJ. The life tidalwave of all ExxJs swing from
caring too much about everyone else, followed by a crash of not caring
for self. See Bipolar.

ExxP
Pronounced "EP" and is referring to all the types with the Human Need
of Oi at the top (Ne or Se as a first Function). Myers-Briggs types:
ENFP, ESFP, ENTP, ESTP. The life tidalwave of all ExxPs swing from too
much over stimulation, followed by a swing of being controlled. See
ADHD.

Eyes, Consume Last
A glazed over, wide open stare as if the eyes are open but not actually
taking anything in. Many Consume last eyes will bounce around when
others are talking. Our guess is the Consume last is checking to see if
everything they are hearing can be compared to something they already
know. Consume lasts tend to say, "That's right" alot when others are
talking. For the Consume last, any good information is somehow connected
to what they already know. Bad information that is ignored is anything
that does not connect to what they already know. Everyone does this to
some degree of course, it's just the Consume last's do it the most.
Charles Manson is an example of Consume last eyes.

Eyes, Double Feminine
Oftentimes slightly closer together with a slight cross to them. Nalopia
is an example of FF eyes.

Eyes, Double Observers
Double Observer eyes tend to look and act more like camera lenses that
are constantly zooming in and out. They do not have the single stare
that tends to cluster in Single Observer eyes. The most common eye color
for Double Observers seems to be more blue than brown.

Eyes, Googly
When a person has two different kinds of eyes, often going in different
directions. Asymmetrical faces and eyes tend to cluster in Intuitives
far more than Sensor types. Jeff Bezos has slight Googly eyes.

Eyes, Ni
Wide set eyes with a stare that looks like they are not really looking
at anything in physical reality. This is a trait that tends to cluster
with people with Savior Ni, but not all Savior Ni's have this. AOC is
an example of Ni eyes.

Eyes, Si
Closer together eyes often cluster in Savior Si types. Anthony O'Neil
is an example of Si eyes.

Eyes, Single Observers
Compared to Double Observer types, the Single Observers tend to have
eyes that are a bit more dilated and don't move side to side and zoom
in and out. The most common eye color for Single Observers seems to be
more brown than blue.

Eyes, Visual
Many female FM types will style their eye make up aggressively. The FM
types (especially Double Observers) tend to have the most intense,
piercing eyes. Rihanna and Daniel Craig are both Double Observers and
FM.

F
undefined

F
Stands for Feeler, Feeling.

Facebook Group
OPS does not have any official Facebook groups at this time. There are
many good people on the unofficial OPS forums, but we also see that the
majority of the Drama Amplifiers hang out in these forums. They thrive
on the Latest and Loudest drama which is kind of what Facebook groups
and Discord Servers are famous for. Like all unmoderated social media
forums, because there is no Adult there to Babysit, the group devolves
into tearing others down (see Tribalism). Like all communities, there is
a pretty clear 20/60/20 bell curve and the OPS community is no
different. We see the same 10-20% of people are the ones constantly
causing all the recurring problems. Sometimes, the most obsessive
believers in a community become Hijackers and demand to be listened to
because they are "here to help". On average they only last about a
year or two, and when they burn themselves out, another one takes their
place (see Social Roles). About 60% of people fall into the Silent
Majority. While 10-20% of people we would consider True Believers
because of the Objective Results they produce each year.

Fairsies
Usually referring to the ExxJs who demand that everything be fair. Like
a little kid telling on another student for stealing their markers, the
demand for fairness is a top priority.

Fakeland
A term that we use that is usually referring to Townsfolk Land where
people want things to be Ding-Da-Ding easy. We are all stuck using only
1.5 out of 8 Functions so we naturally want all of reality to fit inside
our narrow views. When things don't go our way, we get upset, blame,
feel like a victim, and become depressed. This is very opposite of Zen
where one lets go of their default views and seeks out objective
reality. For example, and IxxJ lives in the "fakeland" that if there
was just more and better plans, then everything would be good. See
Sucker in the Room.

Falsifiable
Can something be proven right or wrong? Is there a way to define,
measure, test and determine if something is right or not? For example,
when your friend tells you they are an INFJ, you have no way to test,
challenge, check, verify, argue, or accept that. Just because someone
makes a statement and believes it to be true, does not make it right.
The OP system seeks to move towards falsifiability. For example, when we
say a person is a certain type, we can define our terms and show our
Typing Procedure. We can also appeal to the statistics that two of us
separately arrived at the same type out of 512. This does not totally
prove anything, but it does provide some falsifiability to the equation.
Either we are both getting the same type or we are not. This step can be
falsified. The more falsifiability built into a system, the better.

False Summit
Or, "false submit on the way down to hell" is a term we started using
referring to the low points before hitting true Deathbed. For example,
when looking at some of the Heros over the decades, they all thought
they were "done" but still had more to fall. Examples would include
Jim Carey, Mike Tyson, Shia LaBeouf, and currently Will Smith. We do see
that there is in fact a true Deathbed point in time, often followed by
some kind of Rite of Passage where a person never goes back to their old
ways. They will often even have a "new birthday" where they literally
count the years or even days they have been sober/transformed, etc. It
takes decades of extreme pressure and time under tension to finally
break a human. So if you're not there yet, and younger than 50, that's
normal.

Fart Gas
A phrase we use to make fun of the Savior NFs. This is usually referring
to the ridiculous, feel good, bullshit that they say when trying to help
people. It holds no real-world, ST-validity, but it feels good saying.
"Oh, blessings be upon you, I can see that you are a loving soul and
the Universe will reward you abundantly for your troubles."

Favorite Blankie
Referring to a coping attachment that a person has latched onto. For
example, Fi types won't do the Fe needed to emotionally diversify, so
they will latch onto one person or pet to pour all their love into. A Ti
type will latch onto one idea and never let it go even though no one
likes it and it's not working. Everyone has favorite blankies and they
can be identified by the anger that erupts when you try and take them
away.

FBI
The Federal Bureau of Investigation and the CIA have a deep interest in
knowing and understanding the motivations of human behavior. The extreme
predictable potential of the OPS Profiles would help law enforcement
understand the motivations and core driving fears behind criminals. We
see in our data that certain crimes cluster in certain types. Killers,
like all other traits, cluster in certain types. People that are the
same type, commit murder for the same motivations and often use the same
tools.

Fe
Stands for Extroverted Feeling.

Fear of Success
We see that most people fear moving up in life because they fear the
pain of the work they'd have to put themselves through as well as the
criticism of their current friends and family.

Fears
The four default genetic fears are at the core of how we type people so
fast and accurately. From what we see, evolution has largely designed
the human species to move in one of four directions. The driving force
of moving away from pain is far stronger than the pulling force to move
towards pleasure. We all have these four driving fears, but each
Temperament has one of them the most (which makes their life and
tidalwaves predictable).
The IxxP fears the contradiction of trying to live up to their true
selves, but also being able to find a tribe that accepts them.
The IxxJ fears the contradiction of not being able to refine and build a
system that works, but also being able to adapt to something new and
unexpected.
The ExxP fears the contradiction of exploring new and finding better
options, but also not being controlled and limited.
The ExxJ fears the contradiction of helping and caring for everyone
else, but also not being alone and hating self.

Feeler
Anyone who is Savior Feeling, Fi or Fe.

Feeling (F)
One of the four Letters (Feeling, Sensing, Thinking, Intuition). Feeling
and Thinking are opposite of each other and are a Deciding Coin. Feeling
is defined by the cognitive process of prioritizing and emotional
expression. Likes, vibes, priorities, important, values, uses emotions,
prefers an easy job; caregiving, entertainment, psychology, etc.

Feminine Function
We all have two Masculine Functions and two opposite Feminine Functions.
So if your Feeling is Masculine, then your Thinking is Feminine, for
example. When a Function is Feminine, it becomes forgetful, moveable,
and agreeable. We tend to fight with our Masculine Functions, even if
they are Demons. For example, Dave has Fem-Ni at the top but won't
shove, fight, or die on the patterns. He'll wait and stand his ground
on some Sensor fact that he knows is true. Shan is opposite, she has
Fem-Se but can't remember a damn thing. She will lock onto and fight on
"what she knows is going on" (Ni). So when typing people, look for
where someone's Masculine and Feminine Functions land.

Fence
Referring to a Savior Se anecdote, see Jumping over Fence.

FF
Stands for Feminine Sensory, Feminine Extroverted Decider. Has the
following modality order: Tester, Visual, Audio, Kinesthetic. See
Sexuals.

Fi
Stands for Introverted Feeling.

Fight or Flight
A hormonal reaction state known as the fight, flight, or freeze
response. Everyone is triggered by a bear jumping out trying to eat
them, but not everyone is triggered by the Human Needs the same. There
is an entire chemical and physical state the body switches into in order
to deal with a surprised threat. After a heavy dump of these stress
hormones, the body crashes and becomes extremely drained. What we see is
when a person is scared by their 4th Function, their body goes into the
exact same fight or flight chemical state as they would if they were
attacked by a bear. This is also why people can't do their Demons for
very long (longer than 20 minutes). Their body becomes too stressed and
then crashes too hard. See Triggered.

First Farmer
A thought experiment that Dave often uses to explore the feelings of how
hard it is to delay self gratification. Who was the first person
thousands of years ago that did NOT eat all their seeds and planted some
for next year? How hard was it for that guy? You are out with your
hunting and gathering buddies, just trying to scrape through the day,
like you always do. You finally find a handful of seeds and want to eat
them right away so you don't starve. But someone in the group breaks
the routine and says they want to bury half of them so they can have a
fruit tree in 1-5 years from now. Much in the same way, we see people
not caring about their mental or physical health years from now, they
just want to snatch up any tip you have right now and run away.

First Function
The first, largest, and most dominant Function of the four Functions in
the Function Stack. The first Function is where all the reoccurring,
predictable, problems come from in life. Picture the first Function like
an out of control overgrown cancer tumor. Unlike the middle two
Functions that keep each other in check, the first Function
overcompensates for the lack of growth in the fourth Function. Breaking
down and making it through the Hero's Journey can only start once a
person can see and take responsibility for the destructive addiction to
that first Function/Savior.

Fixed Mindset
We see Fixed Mindset overlapping with what we define as a Demon State,
as well as the Trauma Cycle. We are all Fixed Mindset with our two
Functions on the poles, and naturally Growth Mindset with our two middle
Functions. With extreme Fixed Mindset there is always a childhood trauma
involved that hits them in their weak spot. For example, an Observer
raised by parents who are into conspiracies, or a Decider raised by
drama-filled parents. This unresolved childhood trauma wears down the
child to give up and believe that the world is unfair, you get hit out
of nowhere, you are a victim, there is nothing you can do, etc. Then
what plays out is all the symptoms you see: Either good or bad at
something, gives up when frustrated, avoids challenges, failure is bad,
needs constant affirmation, is threatened by others, argues with new
information, etc. See Growth and Mindset.

Flashing Dashboard
This is referring to the two spots on one's Dashboard that shows where
their hardest Demon and last Animal are. For example, for many people
their last Function and their hardest Function are the same. Dave's
type has Se as his last Function as well as his hardest Function (gets
the least activation from his Animals). Shan on the other hand, has Fi
as her last Function (always going to be the most triggering) but Ni is
her hardest Function. Her Ni has a "dash" that symbolizes the least
amount of Animal Activation. For Shan, unlike her Demon Fi, her Demon Ni
is not super triggering. Instead, it is her less frequently used Demon
because her Animals don't activate it much.

The same concept applies to the last Animal as well. For Dave, his last
Animal is Consume and that makes sense because his Fi and Se are towards
the bottom of his Function Stack and his Se is his last Demon. For Shan,
her last Animal is Blast, which pulls from her top two Functions (Te and
Ni). So for Dave, his last Animal falls in a predictable spot for an
IxxJ, but for Shan, her last Animal falls in an unusual spot for an
ExxJ.

The Dashboard shows us where these two "blinking" or least activated
spots are. So the take-away here is your life problems are coming from
your last Function (the greatest triggering fear for all of us) as well
as your hardest Function (this may or may not be your last Function).
Second, the largest voids you are leaving in life are coming from your
last Animal. The last Animal may be coming from the lower Functions as
expected, but also could be coming from the top Functions in the case of
Glass Lizards (those who are double activated on their last Function).

Flat Earthers
This is one of the best examples of how our default fears will always
just find something to freak out about. Take this in context and
understand what I'm saying here, but no one "really believes the world
is flat." Of course there are thousands of people that will die on that
issue, but what I'm saying is deep down, this is really about an
unconscious fear of control/chaos that just happens to be coming out in
this area. For example, convince a flat-earther that the world is round
and tomorrow they will just be screaming about how the government is
lying to us about global warming, evolution, vaccines, aliens, the
population, etc. The fear has to come out somewhere, is the point.
Don't waste time arguing with someone over a ridiculous topic without
looking at the deeper recurring fear that is really driving them. Help
the person process their deeper fear of not having control in their life
and being taken advantage of.

Flexing
Showing off one's ability or accomplishments. Many times this is done
in an insecure way, but it also can be done in a positive, confident
way. People who see themselves high up the Social Hierarchy tend to have
flexing as a trait. Though, we also see it in those who are Specialists
and value job security. The Evolutionary reason for flexing seems to be
that a person is signaling to the tribe that they are, want to, and
should be followed as the leader. You will see leaders who can't get
enough attention and admiration, and you'll see leaders who blush and
push it away. Conor McGregor and Gary Vaynerchuk are both leaders that
have flexing very high. Every chance they get they talk about how great
they are and have had this trait since birth.

Flow State
A productive, balanced, positive state. Factors to consider are
intensity and boredom. So if a task is too intense (stressful and hard)
then anxiety will increase to an unproductive level. If the task is too
easy, then boredom will increase to an unproductive level. There is an
ideal zone where a task is just hard enough to push you, but not break
you, and is also easy enough that it does not bore you to death.

FM
Stands for Feminine Sensory, Masculine Extroverted Decider. Has the
following modality order: Visual, Tester, Kinesthetic, Audio. See
Sexuals.

Follow Your Passion
This is the general advice of many successful people that are trying to
encourage others. Out of a hundred happy, healthy, successful people we
do see that a small percentage of them did in fact follow their passion.
Tiger Woods, Tony Robbins, Lady Gaga, Lori Greiner, and Gary Vaynerchuk
are all good examples. We also see that the far majority of happy people
followed the path that Mike Rowe discovered. That is, most people just
got moving and took a lower-ended local job that they did not like that
they eventually came to love. We fall in the 90% and were never
"passionate" about psychology. We started off in our 20s doing random
jobs that led to more opportunities that eventually dropped personality
psychology on us. We started to get good at it and it evolved into a
full time job. Over the years we have come to love it more and more as
we've gotten better at it. So, if you don't know what your passion is
(like most people) then just start doing jobs you can and trust the
process Mike Rowe found.

FOMO
This stands for Fear-Of-Missing-Out, and is something we see affects
most people pretty badly. Arnold Schwarzenegger says that without a
goal, you are just lost drifting around. Someone who is on their Mission
is not getting jerked around by the Latest and Loudest
short-term-pleasure event that they are missing out on. If a person is
like everyone else, they are just sitting and waiting, coping, trying to
avoid pain, and grabbing for the best subjective pleasure that comes
along. So if others randomly got a better pleasure and you missed out on
it, then that makes you more sad as well as you slid down the Social
Hierarchy of the friend group.

Forced Alpha
From studying hundreds of Alphas (Adults that are happy and free) we see
that they were all forced into it. None of them have a story where
things were easy and they just wanted to be an Alpha and it just sort of
worked out. All of them were trapped, stuck, forced between a rock and a
hard place. All of them were left for dead and had to choose to lay down
and die or get up and fight. All of them had no one coming to save them,
and that seems to be one of the keys needed. Out of your group of 10
people, if one of them is already the Alpha, then you will never become
the Alpha. That role in the Social Hierarchy is already taken so you'll
have to take another. In the Bible and all the movies the Hero has to
"leave and cleave" to their new tribe. Meaning, there has to be a
"Death of the Father" where the Child becomes free from the rule of
the Alpha in their life. There has to be an Alpha-void plus a do-or-die
situation that forces the Child to take on the Hero role and then become
the Alpha.

Forer Effect
A powerful and common psychological phenomenon where people Resonate
with a general personality description that is supposedly tailored
specifically to them. This is one of the largest forces we see that
contributes to people typing themselves so wildly off. Fortune cookies
and Astrology are written in such a general sense, that anyone can
relate to the descriptions. "You are a loving person that is often
misunderstood." Everyone is going to relate to that statement. If that
statement is connected to the INFJ, then I must be that type, done. We
see this happening to an extreme degree with our personality
descriptions. The second a person hears a description of a coin
(especially if it's framed in the positive) they scream out, "THAT'S
ME!" There is no cross-checking, thinking it through, working a
procedure, nothing. The Forer effect is one of the most powerful forces
we see, it gets everyone really bad.

Forever Learning
The full phrase is from the Bible in 2 Timothy 3:7 and is; "Forever
learning but never coming to the knowledge of the truth". A common
human default program seems to be, in all subjects, that if I just learn
more about it, then I'll have some kind of an unlock, and then I'm
done. There is some truth to this and the Info Dominant types are good
at bringing clear information to the conscious so one can work on the
right things. But the deeper issues are coming from laziness and blame.
You will see this especially in the personality community as the same
people will be asking the most questions but still at the same level of
growth a year later. An common, accurate analogy is you can study
working out all you want, but you eventually have to work out to get
results. The "workouts" in self growth are simply setting clear,
Objective Goals. Either a person is setting goals, having Standards
outside themselves, and are getting Results, or they are a Bullshitter.

Four Hour Work Week
Like E-Myth, this best selling book also explains why systems and scale
need to be first in a business. The author Tim Ferriss is a
MM-Ni/Te-BS/C(P) and took the concepts of E-Myth to the next level of
efficiency. E-Myth opens your mind up to how you can go from working
100/hrs a week by yourself, down to lots of people working just 40/hrs a
week. The FHWW shows you how you can get even more done and work not at
all if you want to (4 hours a week). This book came out in 2007 which
was early in the Web 2.0 space. Tim showed that you can use modern
tech-tools to automate and outsource far more than you thought possible.
The best place to start is on daily chores like dishes, groceries, meal
prep, and cleaning. Tim teaches to first do an assessment of how long it
takes to do dishes (say 7 hours a week). Next, do a Pareto Principle
80/20 analysis and see just how much you can really simplify things (get
rid of your special cups and get uniform cups that stack). Then get
dishes down to just 20 minutes of work a week. Once you have eliminated,
simplified, and systematized, now you are ready to delegate it. There
are many services out there that you can now hand dishes off to. Once
you practice this system on a few smaller departments like chores, you
can level it up to larger departments with extreme efficiency.

Fourteen Monsters
When a person is a Child and Fixed Mindset, they will always Hijack
others to save them from their current monster emergency. If you save
someone from their problems 13 times, you'll just have to do it 14
times. Sooner or later, you'll start to see that this person always has
a problem and they need you to work it out for them. This is like the
old saying of; "Give a man a fish and you feed him for the day, teach
him how to fish and you feed him for a lifetime." The Bible says
something to the effect of, "If you save a foolish person from their
mistake, you'll just have to do it again."

Fourth Function
The last and most triggered Function of the Function Stack. For
everyone, it doesn't matter the type, we all get massively triggered
when we have to use our fourth Function unexpectedly. We love our fourth
Function if we can do a "kindergarten version" of it. For example, the
INTJ is a Se-rockstar inside a video game. A 40 year old ESFJ is the
smartest person in the room when she teaches kindergartners. The wiring
seems to be similar to the nails on a chalkboard phenomenon. There is
something about the wiring of this Function that is tied to our
freakout, fight, or flight system. Because of this extreme pain, our
lives are predictable because we all move away from the pain of the
fourth Function. The overactive first Function steps in and sells us the
lie of, "If you just do more of your first Function, then this pain
will go away". Which does make the pain go away in the short term, but
just builds up the predictable tidalwave in the long term.

Freewill
We used to believe that each person has freewill and is free to direct
their life how they choose. Each year, as we get more and more data in,
it feels like freewill is becoming smaller and smaller. The more people
we type, the more we see people of the same type "coincidentally" make
many of the same exact "free" choices. Humans are free to do what they
want, but what we want is our strongest desire at that time. These
desires come from definable programs, not some unknown abyss. We all
seem to have a pretty strong program that wants us all to believe we are
special and do have freewill. The idea that humans don't have freewill
produces a universal negative reaction in most people. A universal
reaction like that is usually a sign of a Default Program. See I'm
Special Disease and Choice.

Friendship
Referring to a trait that some people seem to be higher in than others.
Some people naturally put their friends and family above work, while
others will stop at nothing for their career. Those who are extremely
driven to conquer end up sacrificing their friendships over it. Those
that value friendships first will drop everything to go visit a sick
friend, help out with a move, chat, go out, or be a shoulder to cry on.
Therefore, those who value friendships first never want to be alone at
the top. We see superstition clustering with those who are high in
friendship. Because losing friends is a non-moveable, this means the
person is "not allowed" in their mind to be overly Responsible or have
a divisive drive to be higher in the Social Hierarchy. Therefore, any
way to move higher up the ladder is done by God, good luck, fate, the
Lotto, etc. Danielle Brooks and Rami Malek seem to have friendships
high.

Frog Face
Most often refers to female ESFPs as they often have a wider, flatter,
pretty face. Angelina Jolie would be an example.

Frog in Your Pocket
Also called "Mouse in your pocket" is an urban saying that refers to
pulling others into the conversation. For example, when a parent asks
their kid who broke the thing, the kid replies with, "Well, we did."
The parent then replies, "We? I'm just talking to you, do you have a
mouse in your pocket?" This has become one of the strongest concepts to
demonstrate Savior De. All Savior De's mention other people in every
conversation, even when you ask them a direct question about themselves.
They don't do it a little bit, but they do it every minute or so
compared to the Savior Di's that do not mention other people very
often.

Frogzilla
Referring to a Cranked Up neighbor we had who was an ESFP and had the
classic frog face. She was MM-Se/Fi-CP/B(S) and was very aggressive,
loud, and destructive.

Frowny Biscuit
A term that we sometimes use when referring to a mopey, negative person.

Functions
There are two types of Functions, Observing Functions (Si, Ne, Ni, Se)
and Deciding Functions (Fi, Te, Ti, Fe). The human brain seems to use at
least one Observing Function and one Deciding Function to see enough of
reality to then make a decision/action. These Functions act more like
default reactions or urges than actually seeing true reality even though
they give us the feeling that they are showing us true reality. To see
some level of true objective reality takes all of the 8 Functions and
the Scientific Method. Functions by themselves seem to be subconscious
programs that, if left unchecked, act in an addictive predictable way.
The 8 Jungian Functions from Carl Jung are:
Introverted Feeling (Fi) Extroverted Feeling (Fe)
Introverted Sensing (Si) Extroverted Sensing (Se)
Introverted Intuition (Ni) Extroverted Intuition (Ne)
Introverted Thinking (Ti) Extroverted Thinking (Te)

Some notes about the Functions:
- The 8 Functions come in coins: Fi/Te, Si/Ne, Ni/Se, Ti/Fe.
- Everyone only has 2 sets of the above 4 sets of coins. So, there are 8
Functions total, you are born with 4 of them, and only 2 of them are
Saviors.
- Which 2 sets of coins you get is called your Quadrant.
- Which 2 Functions are your Saviors is called your Type, 32.
- Technically, the Functions are made up of a Letter plus an Introverted
Charge or Extroverted Charge.
Feeling + Introverted = Fi
Feeling + Extroverted = Fe
Sensing + Introverted = Ti
Sensing + Extroverted = Se
Intuition + Introverted = Ni
Intuition + Extroverted = Ne
Thinking + Introverted =Ti
Thinking + Extroverted = Te

The 4 Human Needs then overlap the Functions.
(Di) Self: Fi, Ti
(Oe) Gather: Se, Ne
(Oi) Organize: Si, Ni
(De) Tribe: Fe, Te

Function Stack
Also referred to as the "Grant Function Stack", is the order of
someone's Functions follows from first to fourth. All types follow this
pattern: Whatever the first Function is, the fourth Function is the
opposite. The four Functions in the stack follow a I/E/I/E or E/I/E/I
pattern. Let's use an INTP (Ti/Ne/Si/Fe) for example. The Ti is the
first Function so therefore the Fe has to be the fourth. Notice that T
and F are opposite, and I and E are opposite. If the first and fourth
Function are Decider Functions (T/F) then the middle Functions have to
be Observer Functions (N/S). So if the first Function in this example is
Introverted and a Decider (Ti) then the second Function has to be an
Observer and Extroverted. Therefore, the second Function can only be Se
or Ne. We are picking Ne for this example. The opposite of Ne is Si. So
Si has to be the 3rd Function. So if you know what any two Functions are
of someone, you can automatically use the "math" to know what the
other two Functions have to be. The Function stack does tell you that
the first Function is always a Savior and the fourth Function is always
a Demon. But the Function stack does not tell you which of the two
middle Functions are a Savior or a Demon. A rule to follow is each type
needs to have one Savior Deciding Function and one Savior Observing
Function. There are 16 possible combinations to stack Functions, and
these are the Standard Myers Briggs 16 Types.

A
undefined

Activation
Referring to the Animals pulling energy from a Function. Every Animal in
the top 3 Animals (not counting the 4th Animal) has "two wires" with
each wire pulling energy from a separate Function. For example, Savior
Blast pulls energy from the De and Oi Function. Sleep pulls energy from
the Di and Oi. So in this example, the Oi is "Double Activated" and
the De and Di are both "Single Activated".

Addictions
We see our Savior Functions working as literal addictions. We get good
feelings from using them, and negative feelings when using our Demons.
Like all addictions, we stack on "reasons and excuses" as to why we
are not addicted and we have to use them more. One of the most powerful
mechanisms of addiction is the ability to hide itself from the person.
Almost everyone is addicted to something and don't even realize they
are. Everyone has some form of coping and trying to escape from their
problems. Common addictions include, alcohol, energy drinks, food,
movies, video games, porn, traveling, socializing, drama, etc. None of
these on their own are "bad" but rather are often a part of an
addictive cycle that follows the same predictable steps:
chemically/emotionally triggered by some stimuli, then running to the
addiction, which gives a temporary relief, which leads to shame and
guilt, which then just fires back up the emotional triggers.

Addiction to Saviors
The most accurate way to describe the dominance of Savior Functions is
with the word addiction. When you really start to see and understand
these coins, you'll be able to see in others how their abusive
addiction to their Saviors is what is causing all of their recurring
life problems. The ExxP won't stop demanding freedom, so others have to
control them. The IxxP can't stop putting themselves first, so others
have to knock them down. The IxxJ won't stop controlling things, so
others have to move around them. The ExxJ won't stop blaming everyone
else, so others have to hate them. From what we see, only when someone
can see their Saviors as abusive addictions, can they then back off from
feeding them so much, which then allows the underdeveloped Demons a
chance to grow and balance.

ADHD (ADD)
The classic description for ADHD is what we have independently defined
in the OP system as an ExxP tidalwave. Disorganization, lack of focus,
difficulty with details, hard to stay on topic, followed by a swing of
being controlled. This disorder clusters in types that are Savior Oe,
De, Play, Blast, with Sleep or Consume last.

Adult
Someone who gives more than they take. An Adult has grown out of their
destructive childish ways and is consistently providing for themselves
and others. The Adult is on the other side of the Pain Equation. Unlike
the Child, they have been worn down to know that if they run from pain
now, they have a greater pain later. Oftentimes another word for Alpha.

Alex Jones
We typed Alex as a MM-Te/Ni-BP/C(S). Alex started broadcasting
conspiracies from the radio in the 1990s. Once the internet started to
go scale Alex made a home on YouTube and other social media platforms.
Over the years he became more and more unhinged and fell farther down
the conspiracy rabbit holes. Eventually, just about every bad thing that
happened in the news was some kind of government plan to kill off the
population and cover it up. As a Blaster ExxJ, Alex's fears are going
to be about the "selfish narcissists who are taking more for
themselves" (Demon Consume). As an ExxJ, he sees himself as a little
victim and everyone else is the big bully. With his Savior Ni (Demon Se)
he has become more and more detached from reality. Alex is one of the
best examples of what happens to all of us if you let your Saviors go
unchecked for decades.

Aliens
We see consistent patterns in how people react and process the
possibility of aliens visiting earth. Large cultural fears (COVID,
Global Warming, Nuclear War, Terrorists, Aliens, etc) are always good
data points to track because everyone falls into one of just a few
categories. The idea that aliens have been visiting our planet in flying
saucers really started to take off in the 1950s. Since then the
conversation of aliens and UFOs have been swept under the rug of another
crazy conspiracy. We have always seen that Single Observers tend to
cluster in any conspiracy that contains "secret information" such as
aliens and a government coverup. Recently (2022) the mainstream news has
been reporting documented encounters that Navy pilots have been having
with UFOs. As the congress and real officials are starting to have
conversations about these "Unidentified Aerial Phenomena" (UAP) it's
been interesting to see the categories of reactions. For example, many
Single Observers are screaming, "See! I told you so!" While the Single
Deciders are scared to weigh in because of the fear of social shame.
While other Double Observers see it as interesting, a possibility, and
are ready to accept what science finds either way. Maybe we'll find out
in our lifetime if aliens are really visiting this planet. In the
meantime, there is an equally fascinating phenomenon happening and that
is how people react to a culturally loaded fearful topic in a
predictable way.

Ally
A heterosexual or straight person who believes in and supports the
LGBTQ+ community and rights. A large part of our research, mission, and
personal values are to be an ally to the LGBTQ+ community.

Alone in the World
If you fall too far down the OPS rabbit hole, you'll start to see the
truth of just how trapped everyone is. Everyone is just a meme of their
type and are running off of Default Programs only. They don't Get the
Joke and never Catch a Few. As you build your way back up through the
pit of Existentialism, you see just how hard it is to just get yourself
to walk someone in a straight line. The daily Discipline, the Objective
Goal setting, Standards, accountability, teamwork, etc. If you barely
made it, how the hell would anyone else make it through all that? You
begin to feel very alone in the world. The thing to know here is, this
is very normal, and is how it's supposed to be. Add this to your long
list of Zen views to also accept. And look around and see that people in
the health field feel alone too. They have the "secret info" that
gives them life and everyone else is killing themselves with junk food.
There are hundreds of industries, movements, religions, and worldviews
out there where the converts feel alone in a world that doesn't know
the truth and is killing themselves. So zoom out even more, and accept
the truth. Yes, you "got out" and none of your friends and family ever
will. Have a funeral for them, cry for months, and move on. "Your
people" are out there alone and scared. So get off your sorry ass and
go find and help them. What else are you going to do?

Alpha
An "Alpha" (often called the "Hero" or "Adult") is an abstract
archetype for someone who has reached a level of Consciousness and
Responsibility and are no longer driven by fear, anxiety, depression and
are instead filled with love and abundance. They consciously choose to
live by a new Pain Equation of the pain of Discipline now for a greater
Meaning later. They are non-needy and play the higher role of the Giver
in the Social Hierarchy. Be careful not to create an Idol out of a
specific real person. Gary Vaynerchuk, Byron Katie, Wes Watson, Tony
Robbins, Jim Carey and many others all have "Alpha traits" about them.
What happens is someone you look up to will have a horrible controversy
in the next 10 years and your trust in them will collapse. This is
dangerous because what many people fall into is when their idol falls,
they give up on looking to anyone above them for inspiration. Therefore,
they go back into their subjective world and rely on themselves. We have
learned to follow the traits of all these amazing people, and follow
lots of them. When you eventually see darkness in your hero's, that's
ok, because you are following 10 of them and you are following the
spirit of the Alpha, not a specific person.

Alpha Quadrant
A Socionics term that refers to all the types with the Functions of:
Si/Ne, Ti/Fe (xNTP, xSFJ in the Myers-Briggs system).

Alpha State
The technical term for an "Alpha State" is when someone is using their
first and fourth Function together (favoring on the side of the dominant
Human Need). For example, for all types with Ni as a first Function,
this will be Ni+Se=Si. All other lead Functions would look like this:
Si+Ne=Ni, Se+Ni=Ne, Ne+Si=Se, Fi+Te=Ti, Te+Fi=Fe, Ti+Fe=Fi, Fe+Ti=Te.
This integration between the first and fourth Function is what anyone is
doing as they are becoming more conscious and responsible in life. One
of the best examples of this is Byron Katie, who is lead Fe and now
lives a life of helping others work out their personal logic. She has
figured out her own Ti and is now helping others push through their
emotions and find their own logical truth to stand on. Byron Fe-cares
about the tribe, and then uses her Ti to help them work out their own
truth (Te).

Amygdala
This is a set of glands in the middle of our brains that regulate
memory, decision making, and emotional responses. When we become
defeated by a trauma the amygdala grows and the Hippocampus shrinks.
This creates a chemical imbalance in our brains that produces a Fixed
Mindset. See Lobsters.

Andrew Huberman
We typed Andrew as a MF-Se/Ti-CP/B(S). Andrew was the first bridge for
us in connecting the abstract, internal, subjective world of psychology,
and the physical, chemical, world of hormones. As a ST-Blockhead, Andrew
is using his ability to dive into and understand brain studies in order
to help others in the NF (abstract emotional world). His work (and many
others out there like him) help us take our personal, abstract problems
and start to break them down into some ST steps we can actually win at.
For example, knowing that it's normal to be stressed with all the
things going on in your life! Therefore, start doing the opposite and
your brain will start to calm down and go into a more balanced state.
More and more, humans are not some unique, mystical, spiritual soul that
is unhappy for unknown reasons and is destined to be tormented forever.

Anecdotes
A personal, subjective story often used wrongly to try and prove an
objective point. The number one reason why we see most people can't
figure out personality typing is that they have no idea how to not use
anecdotes. Almost all of the emails we get are just using anecdotes and
therefore spinning in circles. People will point to something they did,
liked, didn't like, resonate with, etc. and then randomly match that up
with a personality trait. For example, "I can't be an Extrovert
because I don't like parties." "That person said they read a book,
they must be Savior Consume." "I'm good at figuring things out,
therefore I'm Savior NT." "I get really tired, I'm Savior Sleep."
"I like to plan, I'm obviously Savior Ni." "I'm not good at jumping
over a fence, so I can't be Savior Se." For most people, it's too
exhausting to even attempt to build a consistent Typing Procedure, so
therefore, their easy Default Programs like anecdotes just take over.

Anima and Animus
Carl Jung described the anima as the unconscious feminine side of a man,
and the animus as the unconscious masculine side of a woman. There are
positives and negatives to these traits to both of these: ANIMA (man's
feminine side) Positives: Patient, compassionate, tender, nurturing,
loving, giving, considerate Negatives: Moody, uncertain, vain, catty,
insecure, hypersensitive ANIMUS (woman's masculine side) Positives:
Assertive, thoughtful, rational, powerful, objective, courageous,
honorable Negatives: Ruthless, opinionated, destructive, brutal,
reckless, cold We see, use, and understand these descriptions in a
general sense. For some males and females, the Anima and Animus
descriptions seem to fit pretty well. But there is a large percent of
the male population that is extremely feminine in a Savior (conscious)
state. As well as a large percent of females that are naturally very
masculine. So in our view, you'd have to be a masculine male that has
double feminine Demons to really get the full Anima experience. As well
as a feminine female type that has double masculine Demons to get the
true Animus experience. See Sissy Syndrome, Hulk Syndrome.

Animals
When a Letter is combined with an Introverted or Extroverted charge, you
get a Function. Animals work much in the same way. When you combine a
Decider Function and an Observer Function together, you get an Animal.
Sleep is when Di and Oi work together to process known information for
the self. Consume is when Di and Oe work together to gether in new for
the self. Blast is when De and Oi work together to share known
information to others. And Play is when De and Oe work together to
experience new with others. Just like the Functions, everyone has two
Savior Animals and two Demon Animals. You can always know what
someone's first Savior Animal is by their two Savior Functions. For
example, if someone's two Savior Functions are Fi and Si, then you know
their first Savior Animal is Sleep. If someone's two Saviors are Te and
Ni, then you know their first Savior Animal is Blast.

Animal Stack
The Animal stack order follows the same logic as the Function Stack
order. If the first Animal is Introverted, then the stack follows as
I/E/I/E. If the first Animal is Extroverted, then the stack follows as
E/I/E/I. If the first Animal is an Info Animal, then the last Animal is
also an Info Animal with the two Energy Animals in the middle. If the
first Animal is an Energy Animal, then the last Animal is an Energy
Animal, with the two Info Animals in the middle. A person's first
Savior Animal is determined by their two Savior Functions. Note that the
Animal stack order does not necessarily mean this is the person's
Animal Savior/Demon order! See Animal Stack (S/D Order) below:

Savior Functions of Di+Oi=Sleep
1) Sleep (Introverted, Energy)
2) Blast (Extroverted, Info)
3) Consume (Introverted, Info)
4) Play (Extroverted, Energy)

Savior Functions of Di+Oe=Consume
1) Consume (Introverted, Info)
2) Play (Extroverted, Energy)
3) Sleep (Introverted, Energy)
4) Blast (Extroverted, Info)

Savior Functions of De+Oi=Blast
1) Blast (Extroverted, Info)
2) Sleep (Introverted, Energy)
3) Play (Extroverted, Energy)
4) Consume (Introverted, Info)

Savior Functions of De+Oe=Play
1) Play (Extroverted, Energy)
2) Consume (Introverted, Info)
3) Blast (Extroverted, Info)
4) Sleep (Introverted, Energy)

Animal Stack (S/D Order)
The Function Stack order happens to also be the Savior/Demon order for
all Standard Myers Briggs types. Meaning, their first two Functions are
Saviors, and their bottom two Functions are Demons. The Jumper types
don't have their Savior and Demon order the same as their Function
Stack order. For the Jumpers, their 1st and 3rd Functions are Saviors,
and 2nd and 4th are Demons. This same "Jumping" concept also applies
to the Savior/Demon order of the Animals. For some people, their Animal
Stack order happens to be the same order as their Saviors and Demons.
But for most people, their Savior/Demon Animal order is different from
their Animal Stack order.

Rules to know are that everyone has one Savior Information Animal (C or
B), and one Savior Energy Animal (S or P). Possible Savior/Demon order
of one's Animals are as follows: (Note the slash between letters
signifies the first two Saviors and the last two Demons).
II/EE: SC/BP, SC/PB, CS/BP, CS/PB
IE/IE: SB/CP, CP/SB
IE/EI: SB/PC, CP/BS
EI/IE: BS/CP, PC/SB
EI/EI: BS/PC, PC/BS
EE/II: BP/SC, BP/CS, PB/SC, PB/CS

1) Remember that the first Savior Animal is determined by the two Savior
Functions.
2) Remember that with the first two Savior Animals, one has to be an
Information Animal (C or B) and the other an Energy Animal (S or P).

Answers from God
A phrase that is usually referring to the speech pattern of the Consume
Last types. All Consume lasts speak with an authority and confidence
that they fully know the information. They have actually Consumed very
little and may have some Blast/Play results in making it work for them.
This is more than enough information to fill their bodies with
authoritative confidence. When asked detailed questions they don't
actually know, they will still answer in confidence. From the outside it
looks like they are getting a direct stream of answers from God. We see
a clustering of religious and cult leaders being Consume last.

Anxiety
The Single Observers are far more anxiety-ridden at scale compared to
the Single Deciders. Meaning, if you have 100 Observers and 100 Deciders
send in videos for Video Typing, you can see an overall contrast between
the two. Everyone feels lost in life, not sure which college to go to,
which job to do, etc. The Double Observers address these issues in their
life, work them out, and then move on to trying to process people. Being
stuck or lost on the path of life is just not their biggest fear,
therefore they don't have massive amounts of anxiety over information.
The Single Deciders are constantly Nervous and worried about what others
think of them. For Single Observers, they always are in a fog of low
level anxiety from the unknown of their future pathway in some way.
Again, all this is relative to 100 Observers vs. 100 Deciders.

Anyone can do Anything
A term we use to try and combat the obsessive overuse of anecdotes with
personality typing. Most people, most of the time will just grab a
random anecdote and then use that to try and prove why they are a
certain type. For example, people often say something like, "I felt
really sad the other day, therefore I must be a Feeler." The logic in
that anecdote goes as such: If you ever have bad feelings ever, this
means you are a Savior Feeler. Is that part of the Typing Procedure? Is
that really how we are defining terms and classifying binary coins of
behavior? A simple think-through that everyone can do everything would
slow down the addiction to anecdotes.

Apostle Paul
Our best guess is that Paul was a MM-Te/Ni-BP/C(S), which is the same
type as Alex Jones. Paul's original name was Saul and he was known as
the Pharisee of all Pharisees. The first half of Paul's life he devoted
to following all of the Old Testament rules and aggressively persecuting
Christianity when it came up. Paul wrote much of the New Testament and
is famous for having an epic conversion. What we take most from Paul is
he was literally "the worst of the worst" as he said, and repented.
Repentance, meaning he could look back and see how bad he was. This is
something most people skip, their mind just goes blank when they try and
see the hell they are putting others through. They lack the
consciousness to see how much pain they are inflicting on others.
Everyone sees themselves as the damn victim, and can't see the truth.

Archetypes
There are Social Roles in any given tribe. There has to be some at the
top, some at the bottom, some in the middle, etc. There is always the
serious person, and there is always the goofy person; the overachiever,
and the underachiever; the student, and the teacher; the good guy, there
is the bad guy. Carl Jung loosely identified 12 archetypes: The
Innocent, Orphan, Hero, Caregiver, Explorer, Rebel, Lover, Creator,
Jester, Sage, Magician, and Ruler. Yes, a person's personality type
does factor into the equations, but largely, which archetype we play in
life is dependent on the tribe we are in and the pressures of the
environment. For example, you could be the "smartest type ever" but if
you are surrounded by far smarter people, you are going to play the
archetype of the dope. So the way we look at and use archetypes is in
the context of, "Who is this person in the tribe?" We don't hold to
literal definitions very strongly because a person's archetypal role is
changing as they grow and depends on the people and environment they are
currently in. What is consistent, is there is always a role for whatever
archetype we play. Meaning, as soon as you grow out of your current
archetype, someone else must come in and fill that spot. Also, you
can't play an archetype that is already taken in your tribe.

Arena
Usually refers to someone who is playing in the competitive game of life
and is living an objective, accountable, pass or fail lifestyle. For
example, those who are not in the arena are those who are living in
their mom's basement, milking college, or stuck at a job that is well
below their skill level. Those who are in the arena might have kids, a
high performing job, owns a business, in the military, a performer, etc.
Most people are so afraid of failure and judgment from others that they
think playing it safe is the way to go. They then tear down those who
are getting dirty and making mistakes in the arena. Those that are in
the arena don't criticize others much because they know how hard it is.

Arnold Schwarzenegger
We typed Arnold as a FM-Te/Se-PC/B(S). Arnold would be an example of
someone who is possibly born as a "Number 1". Meaning, someone who
from birth, sees themselves as the guy at the top. Arnold was born and
raised in Austria right after the second world war. Life was extremely
hard for the Germans and Austrians at this time. Arnold was determined
to somehow make it to America (which was practically impossible) and
become the best bodybuilder ever (also, pretty much impossible). He of
course did both these things and then set his next goals on becoming the
highest paid actor in Hollywood (which he did) and then the governor of
California (which he also did). Arnold is the icon of setting goals and
doing whatever it takes to get there. He says, without a goal, you are
like a ship lost at sea, just wandering around.

Astrology
The belief that one's personality traits are determined or effected by
the planetary alignment during the time of their birth. So depending on
the time of your birth, you are one of 12 types basically (Aries, Leo,
Scorpio, etc). Similar to the Enneagram, there is a description of your
type that tells you information about you. This has been proven to not
be scientific in any way of course. We also have not seen any pattern
with personality type and date of birth in our data. Astrology is an
example of the Forer Effect and how we (humans) will see patterns and
attribute it to ourselves.

Audio
The Audio and Visual modalities are on a coin with each other. This
means everyone has both modalities but one is more dominant than the
other. Those with Masculine Sensory have audio as their first (MF) or
second (MM) modality. A thousand people with Masculine Sensory can hear,
remember, and recall information on a timeline better than a thousand
people with Feminine Sensory. See Sexuals for how this connects to the
Functions.

Auxiliary Function
An outdated term referring to the Second Function in the Grant Function
Stack.

Avalanche
Often another term for a Tidalwave. Vladimir Lenin said, "There are
decades where nothing happens, and there are weeks where decades
happen." Take the Russian invasion of Ukraine for example. Putin had
been building up for decades with hostility towards Ukraine. For the
most part, only a few stones rolled down the hill. Meaning, there were a
few minor tremors that let a bit of energy out through small aggressive
moves. Then, in early 2022, all hell broke loose and the Russian army
invaded Ukraine. In an avalanche, one piece starts to go which triggers
everything else and it all goes at once. So the build up of negative or
positive consequences can be increasing over many years, only to be
unleashed all at once with some small trigger. Another example was when
Donald Trump and Alex Jones were pushing it on their social media
platforms for years. Once they finally got banned from one platform, all
the other platforms jumped in at once and also banned them. The build up
was for years, one small event triggered it off, and it all came down at
once.

B
undefined

B
Stands for Blast.

Baby Rattlesnake
An analogy we use that refers to people using their Saviors on full
blast and not knowing when to stop. We get this from the fact that baby
rattlesnakes are oftentimes more dangerous than older rattlesnakes. The
older snakes will often bite and not inject poison (or inject very
little) in order to save it. The baby rattlesnakes haven't learned the
lesson of saving their limited poison, so they can bite and inject all
their poison at once. The lesson here is, the older, wiser person knows
when to hold back or stop, where the kid can be more dangerous because
they will attack a situation full force and not know when to back off.

Babysit
To force others to get involved in a task that you are responsible for.
For example, this could be managing your own emotions, solving a
contradiction, behaving in a social setting, doing your job, etc.

Back in the Cooker
The process of letting someone who is becoming toxic and unhelpable go.
The more you try and help them the more they use arguing with you as a
distraction from their personal issues. Rather than going down with
them, you let them go so they can get drunk on the consequences of their
negative identity. This only increases their chances of hitting rock
bottom and therefore having a chance to possibly repent and want to
change their identity someday. This is one of the hardest things to do
in life and requires an extreme state of Non-Need.

Bad Guy
Usually refers to one's Saviors and Demons and who in their life is to
blame for all the world's problems. For the ExxP the "bad guy" is
often the government, the ExxJ it's the narcissist, the IxxJ is the
chaos-causers, and the IxxP it's group think. Also this term is used in
the context of, "Don't make me your bad guy." This is when someone in
the Adult position is seeing someone acting like a Child. If the adult
steps in and tries to correct them, the child then snaps back and
attacks the adult. The child doesn't see the adult as helping, rather a
mean bad guy that is bringing pain on them. Now the child has a specific
target to channel all their unconscious, unprocessed fear and pain onto.
This is why you will see us move out of the way of toxic people and
throw them Back in the Cooker. We are not tied to the outcome, we don't
have to save anyone, and we are not going to be someone's personal bad
guy.

Barnum Effect
See Forer Effect.

Barry Belcher
See Perry Belcher.

Baseline
Determining someone's normal state in the personality Typing Procedure.
Where are they on the Introvert/Extrovert spectrum in particular? For
example, when we first open up someone's video, we have no idea who
they are. They could be a super Extroverted person in real life, but
randomly, at this one part of the video, they are super mopey. This
person could be super Oe but in this one random clip they are very
focused and organized. Or they could be the most logical engineer, but
we just happen to open up the video right where they were crying. We
have to watch enough video footage of a person to average out all the
ups and downs to determine their baseline.

Batcave
This is usually referring to the scene in the Batman movies where Bruce
goes down into the batcave for the first time and faces his fears. He
stands up in a cloud of bats and lets them swirl all around him. Rather
than running from his fears, he is now choosing to step into the
darkness and become one with them. He not only overcomes his fear of
bats, but then uses them to inflict fear on others. Fear is a powerful
force that you can actually use once you decide to face it and own it.

Batting Average
Referring to tracking your results of typing with your partner. The goal
is to get 70% or above consistency with your partner in typing without
influencing each other. What this does, is it starts to objectively show
you what coins you can see pretty well and which ones you are having a
hard time with. For example, we started a doc to track a person we have
here in training. So what we do is we both (Dave and Shan) independently
type a client and arrive at a 512 type. Most of the time we get the same
type as each other (or close to it). We know our batting average is that
we will sometimes have a hard time with the sexuals and middle Animals.
But we almost never get the two Savior Functions (and 1st Animal) off
from each other anymore. We then have our person in training type the
same client without showing them what we got. We then compare their
results with ours. The person's batting average is about 60-70% at this
point. They most often get the same Temperament, same Letters, and same
Savior Functions most of the time. They don't go all the way to the 512
type at this point and are trained to not put down a coin if they don't
know. Where this becomes super useful, is we know our trainee is most of
the time getting the type mostly right. So when they tell us they met
someone at a social event who they think is Se/Fi, we can trust with a
60-70% likelihood that they are probably pretty close. Compared to
everyone else who only does Subjective Typing, claims to be a certain
type, but has no batting average of credit to stand on. If you have
typed and logged over 20 people and have gotten the same type as us (or
your partner) with a consistency rate of 60% or higher, you are one of
the few who is building credit in the Objective Typing method.

Battleship Game
A term we use in the typing procedure, synonym to the term process of
elimination. The battleship game we are referring to is a board game
where the objective is to find where your opponents' ships are. You
can't see where they are and have to work backwards from all the places
where you found that they are NOT. You also have to read the emotional
state of your opponent to try and work out when they are bluffing,
nervous, lying, or telling the truth. Like Chess, this battleship game
is good practice for learning the basics of the Typing Procedure. We
often use a process of elimination to determine which coins/type this
person is NOT.

Battleship Life
An analogy Dave uses for his personal life that is a modified version of
Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs. Maslow's needs is the best tool to use to
know what to work on in life once you start getting your shit together.
Go after the lower priorities first before you go on to save the world.
By adding the battleship to the equation, there is now a dimension of
movement. You are not sitting somewhere building a pyramid in a static
state, you are on the move around the world. Opportunities may come to
you, or you may travel to them. You might get blown over by a storm, or
you may have smooth sailing. The job of a battleship is never done. The
crew is constantly improving and always on the move looking to serve
others. There is no "destination" and you have to be ready to go with
the flow as you also work to control your life.

Beer Bottle Beetle
This is referring to the example that Donald Hoffman gives that shows
that we are made up of individual, binary, programs. The Australian
Jewel Beetle was dying off because it kept trying to mate with bumpy,
glass, beer bottles that were thrown out along the highway. The
conclusion is, the male beetles aren't "looking for a female" but
rather they are programmed to find something, "shiny, brown, and
dimpled" and the bigger the better. When you keep unfolding this idea,
you start to see that we are all made up of hundreds of little binary
programs that give us the illusion of Freewill.

Best Fit Type
A cop-out term that most Personality Practitioners use to not upset
people. In the old days, the MBTI practitioners used to play the same
game we do and that is work out and tell someone what their personality
type is. The MBTI staff suffered the same wrath that you see us get.
"That's not my type, you don't know me! I'm an INFJ, the most rare,
best type!" So what has evolved over the decades is personality
practitioners have learned to keep their mouths shut and just let people
type themselves. This saves them from the fallout of all the negativity.
After all, it's unethical to put people in boxes. The personality
practitioners all know their systems are subjective and not really
scientific. So who really cares if the practitioner makes up a fake type
or the client does? Better to keep the peace and just let the Hijacker
pick the type they already came in wanting to be. The strongest force at
scale is whatever a person subjectively Resonates with. This is why we
know there will be an OPS Split in the future.

Beta
A "Beta" is an abstract archetype for someone who is still in the
unconscious and irresponsible stage and therefore filled with fear,
anxiety, and depression. Most commonly interchangeable with the term
Child. This person is still living by the default Pain Equation of
avoiding pain now, seeking pleasure in the moment, for a Tidalwave of
pain later. They are needy and play the lower role of the Taker in the
Social Hierarchy.

Beta Quadrant
A Socionics term that refers to all the types with the Functions of:
Se/Ni, Ti/Fe (xSTP, xNFJ in the Myers-Briggs system).

Bias Training
This has now become a mythological term that the out of touch people on
the Facebook groups use to scare themselves. The myth is that we have
some kind of militarized course where we run people through "bias
training" in order to teach them to objectively type. Along the way we
make them do pushups while they eat dog food or something like that. In
reality, what we've found in the first 30 interns here is this: Don't
waste your time on someone who really doesn't want to be here. Only
work with the people who really want to be here and know what this is.
Like any other challenging job, everyone who applies here has some
dilution of what the job is going to be. Everyone wants it to be them
sitting around doing their Saviors full blast, getting paid millions,
while everyone else does the real work in order to support them. What we
have found is, the second you ask someone to do one ounce of something
not in their Saviors just 1%, they break down and quit. You wouldn't
believe it, unless you've also spent time in a hiring/firing position
too. So now what we do is just wait for, and look for, people who want
to be here and know what this job really is. See Hiring.

Biases
There are many documented cognitive biases that demonstrate that we all
in some way shape or form, are projecting what we want to be true on
reality. We see in the Typing Procedure that it is impossible to see and
catch your biases without months of training. We all have no idea how
much we are all just running off Default Programs and biases until there
is some objective measure put down. It all makes sense from an
Evolutionary point of view. Millions of people don't have time to slow
down and evaluate reality in every situation. These ready-to-go-biases
boost us with a sense of confidence so we can just move. Slowing down
and evaluating is one of the hardest practices one can do.

BIG 5
This personality system is currently the most widely accepted in the
scientific community. It originally started in the 1960s with the goal
of using the scientific process to define, measure, and predict
personality. Like the OPS code, the Big 5 puts terms on a binary
spectrum. The Big 5 is measuring 5-6 coins, where the OP system is
measuring 9 coins. Many of the coins of the two systems do overlap. For
example, the way the Big 5 defines EXTROVERTISM is very similar to the
OPS definitions. OPENNESS is very similar to how we define Oe.
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS has alot of overlap with Myers-Brigs "Judger"
(Savior De+Oi). AGREEABLE sounds alot like Feminine De. The descriptions
of NEUROTICISM could have some overlap with extreme De (ExxJ, BP, PB,
Deciders).
Big 5 terms:
Low EXTROVERSION: Quiet, reserved, withdrawn
High EXTROVERSION: Outgoing, warm, social, emotionally expressive
Low OPENNESS: Practical, conventional, prefers routine
High OPENNESS: Curios, wide range of interests, independent,
imagination
Low CONSCIENTIOUSNESS: Impulsive, careless, disorganized
High CONSCIENTIOUSNESS: Self-disciplined, goal driven, hardworking,
dependable, organized
Low AGREEABLENESS: Critical, uncooperative, suspicious
High AGREEABLENESS: Cooperative, good-natured, helpful, empathetic
Low NEUROTICISM: Calm, even-tempered, secure
High NEUROTICISM: Unstable emotions, anxious, negative

Bill Nye
We typed Bill as a FF-Ti/Si-SC/P(B), the same type as Elon Musk and
Donald Hoffman. What is so interesting about Bill, is despite being a
very Introverted, anti-social type, he has become very popular. In the
1990s, Bill had a science TV show where he played an extremely
Extroverted character that truly made science fun and interesting. A
whole generation (including Dave and Shan) grew up watching and learning
from Bill. Today, Bill is still a funny guy, but he also hits hard on
issues that are important to him like climate change and the gender
spectrum. Bill is an example of how you can specialize in something, but
you still have to develop yourself to get out there and sell it.

Binary Coins
See Coins, Binary.

Bipolar
The classic description for Bipolar is what we have independently
defined in the OP system as an ExxJ tidalwave. High energy, helping
others, racing thoughts, irritability, followed by a swing of
helplessness. This disorder primarily clusters in ExxJs as well as
ExxPs, and IxxJs that are Savior De.

Bird Chirping
Refers to the short, incoherent, one liners, most common in the PC/S(B).
Bird chirping is a combination of Oe Channel Changing and Blast Last.
The person will mumble off a string of words or half sentences while
changing the topic so understanding them becomes impossible. It sounds
like a parrot that is part muttering words and just making random noises
all at the same time. Imogen Heap, FF-Ne/Te-PC/S(B) is a classic bird
chirper.

Bitch Testing
A phrase often used by Owen Cook and a core concept of the Man Book.
Bitch testing is when someone is trying to pull someone else off of
their mission in life. Bitch testing only flows in an upward direction.
Meaning, someone lower on the Social Hierarchy is the one bitch testing
someone who is higher up. The lower person is feeling hurt, needy, and
threatened by the person above them. So, rather than building themselves
up, they unconsciously try to pull that person down. Symptoms include,
constant criticism, complaining, emotional outburst, frivolous arguing,
finger pointing, feelings of resentment and anger, etc. For the person
on their mission, the game is to know what bitch testing is, be able to
see it, and not fall for it. What becomes tricky, is the bitch tester
usually starts off with "honest, calm, simple, questions" and then
uses those to get a foothold for more drama. "Why did you forget this,
is it because you are slipping a little in life or do you not like me?"
See Hijacker and Loaded.

Blame
Not taking ownership for something that you are responsible for, tossing
it to the person above you, and then playing the victim. The Child
always has someone between them and the Universe. Therefore, when things
go bad the child can always point fingers at the person above them. The
Adult doesn't have anyone else above them, so therefore no one is
listening or caring about their sob-story. Unconsciousness and blame are
the two biggest factors to look for in someone. How much can they not
see how much they are leaving voids in their Demons and overdoing their
Saviors which are then setting in motion the domino effect of the
Tidalwave that now has crushed them? How fast and how much do they just
blame that last domino (thing, event, or person) and have no idea of the
true cause and effect? We all start off blaming our siblings, parents,
friends, school, government, media, etc. Therefore, if the person in
front of you is a full blown blame machine when things get hard,
everything is normal. It is very rare to come across someone who has set
a personal standard in their life to never blame and to always take
extreme responsibility.

Blast
(De+Oi) Extroverted Animal, opposite of Consume, Lessons, announcer,
producer, pragmatist, learns by jumping in, feels like they know enough
Sharing your known information. A teacher is a good example of someone
in a Blast state. They have taken in, processed, understood, and
narrowed down the subject, and now they are instructing others.

Blast Last
Energy Dominant, Mumbly, leaves voids, afraid to get started. People
with Blast last have overactive Consume so they feel like they are never
ready. Feelings of perfectionism and fear of getting started overwhelm
them. They will watch videos and read up on a subject for months and
still never feel like they have enough to get started. Oftentimes they
have a hard time talking and will mumble and trail off. They will leave
voids, not say anything, won't respond, won't call you back, and
simply leave others in the dark.

Blast Report
Giving people just the summary and call to action of a story and not
giving supporting details. People with Savior Blast (SB, BS, BP, PB)
have compressed and organized their known information. They are
responsible to share just a summary and the action steps needed. They
have Demon Consume so they have taken very little (or have a hard time
remembering) all the supporting details of the story. From the outside,
it's hard for people to remember or believe the conclusions of the
Blasters because there is no detailed story. A Consume report you are
left thinking, "I don't know what you're saying" while a Blast
Report you are left thinking, "I get what you're saying, I just don't
believe you."

Blaster Thumbs Up
People that are Savior Blast (especially Consume last) will tend to give
alot of awkward, cringy, thumbs up. We see this clustering the most in
the INTJ Blasters.

Blindspot
Traditionally refers to the aspects about ourselves that we can't see
but others can. Specifically, people have a really hard time seeing the
cause and effect consequences of their actions. For example, people
can't see how much they are doing their Saviors all day which puts alot
of stress on themselves and others. People also can't see just how much
they are really not doing their Demons and therefore putting stress on
themselves and others. Humans have an obsession with only looking at,
and going off of, the small sliver of their self perspective. Whatever a
person sees and feels about themselves in this moment is seen as truth.
It's hard to see your own blind spots because your body will always
want to reject them as not true. We see the Alphas setting daily goals
and discipline as a "trap" to expose their blind spots and then push
themselves through them.

Blinking Dashboard
See Flashing Dashboard.

Block Banging
Referring to Savior Thinkers (especially ST) when they are trying to
figure something out using logic. Oftentimes this is used in a negative
sense to make fun of the Thinker who is overthinking an emotional
situation. For example, rather than just giving someone a hug who is
feeling low, they argue in circles and try to work out the logic of why
this person should not be in a bad mood.

Blockhead
Referring to Savior ST types (especially masculine ST) that are
overdoing Sensory and Thinking and not reading the NF of the situation.
For example, when ordering food at a restaurant, everyone could be
giving out the vibe that they just want to order something quickly and
go. The Savior ST may not pick up on this and then proceed to run the
waiter through 20 minutes of stupid questions about the food. It's an
inappropriate amount of Sensory and logic just to order a damn sandwich
to go. This behavior wrecks the NF social vibe so bad that next time
everyone just won't invite them. And unless someone spells this out to
them and convinces them with Sensor proof and logic, the Blockhead will
have no idea why they weren't invited next time.

Buddy Fucker
A term the military uses to refer to a teammate who screws over others
to protect themselves. Also called Bravo Foxtrot or Blue Falcon. Buddy
fuckers show up wherever there is an objective task with high amounts of
pressure such as school, sports, parenting, business, etc. For a simple
example, say the task is to lift a boat above your head and carry it. As
it gets hard, the BF can't help but rest their arms to save themselves
from pain, which then puts more pressure and pain on their teammates. A
professional buddy fucker will even make you do all the work and blame
you for their problems. Without conscious physical training of body and
character, your friends won't be able to resist fucking you over when
things get hard to save themselves from a little bit of pain.

BUDS Class 234
This is a famous NAVY SEAL documentary that first aired on the Discovery
channel in the early 2000s. It follows 83 students through the 6 month
course of some of the hardest training in the world. It's one of the
best documentaries we've seen to this day and we still work hard to
follow the principles it taught us. We must have watched this
documentary 10 times when we were going through our hell. Famous quotes
include, "Take all this shaking, all this cold, harness it, turn it
into aggression." "Winning here is a conscious decision. Make up your
mind whether you want to pass, or choose to fail." "Whatever you have
to do, just find an excuse to win, keep going."

Bullies
What we see happening to most people these days is they get backed in a
corner by anxiety, depression, disorders, the Covid, job loss, abusers,
etc. Some large, overwhelming, negative force that has also taken out
everyone they know. This powerful negative force acts like a bully,
always making them a victim. People take the "correct" steps by going
to their supervisor, walking a different route, trying new medications,
going to therapy, figuring out their personality type, getting into
self-help, etc. All of these Drink 8 Ounces of Water steps are great and
should be done as well... but this is not enough to get the bully to
stop. What we found for ourselves, is that we had to learn to stand up
for ourselves and fight back. The bully needs to fear you- you need to
be the most powerful force in the equation. After trying everything
else, and doing it the hard way, this is what we have also found true
for ourselves. When anxiety, depression, and fear come our way we get
aggressive and say, "NO!" We then grab a sharp stick and start
fighting back like our life depends on it. I don't care what it takes,
I will no longer go to bed feeling like a victim. Fuck you, I'm done
with that shit.

Bullshitter
Referring to someone who is still playing the childish game of staying
unconscious, not taking responsibility, blaming others, and endlessly
coming up with fake excuses why they are stuck. A bullshitter is someone
who knows better but is causing problems because they don't want to do
the work. See Forever Learning and Back in the Cooker.

Burbank Piles
This is a phrase Dave uses to make fun of Shan. This is referring to the
large piles on top of piles Shan used to have when she was younger and
lived in Burbank, CA. All Skibs, especially the ones with Savior Se,
tend to pile up all the things they collect with the story of "I'm
going to sort it out later".

Business Identities
We got this from Valuetainment and have found it very useful and
accurate to real life. When hiring or joining a business, there are 4
general identities to keep in mind. These positions overlap with what we
see in the Hero's Journey. Positions 1, 2 are the Child that needs to
be told what to do and be babysat. Positions 3, 4 are more Adults that
want to be the responsible one who put the pressure on themselves to
find a way to get the job done. Notice how these 4 positions overlap the
4 Social Types.
1) Runner, $10-40k per year. A helper, kid, part-timer, or intern that
runs around and gets the One-to-Ones. Has to be told what to do and
managed.
2) Administrator, $30-60k per year. Full time person that does the
consistent work like editing, accounting, customer service, etc.
3) Executive Assistant, $40-100k per year. Has their head in the game,
doesn't need to be babysat, problem solver, owner, eager to learn, self
driven.
4) Chief of Staff, $100k-up. Owner, responsible, directs and supports
others, system builder, leads the way, makes the big decisions.

Butterfly Effect
An effect that scientists show that a seemingly small effect now can
cause massive effects over time. A famous analogy is a butterfly
flapping its wings on one side of the world which over time causes a
storm on the other side of the world. Or in movies and TV shows where
the character goes back in time and accidentally steps on one butterfly,
which then causes the entire future to be different when they return to
their time. We are seeing more and more in our data how much events of
your childhood massively affect you when you get older. Like Derren
Brown, we are careful around TV because we are starting to see just how
much one little idea that gets into your brain will change your behavior
over time. This can be used in the positive by daily influencing
yourself with positive videos. Overtime, it is impossible for the things
you take in to not have an affect on you.

Buttfuck
Another word we use referring to Groupthink and how everyone is like
Lemmings marching off to the Wood Chipper. For example, people will
sleep outside of Best Buy just to get a deal on a new TV. "Everyone
else is all smashed together facing the same way, I want to do that
too!" People standing in a line, traffic jams, or any time people are
clambering over each other to get what everyone else is getting is a
buttfuck.

Byron Katie
We typed Byron as a FF-Fe/Ne-PB/S(C). The first 40 years of Byron's
life was nothing more than the average ExxJ life: Full of fear, hate,
insecurity, and attacking blame to those around her. In her mid 40s, she
finally had enough (hit Deathbed) her brain started to use her Demons.
She has a process called, "The Work" where she runs all problems
through her Si, Ti Demons basically. Like how Tony Robbins teaches, she
asks better questions. She'll ask, "Is this fear I'm having really
true?" "Do the facts actually support this fear?" She perfectly uses
her Demons to keep her Saviors in check and therefore she is able to
triangulate and see reality faster. Susan David teaches a similar
process of slowing down and running your default fears through a
process, rather than letting your default reactions take over. Byron
Katie is someone we recommend to everyone, especially those with Demon
Ti.

C
undefined

C
Stands for Consume.

Canceled
When a public figure goes too far or offends too many people, there will
be an uproar on social media to get this person "canceled". Sponsors
don't want to be associated with negativity so they start pulling their
financial support from this figure. This causes a collapse of their
career. Much of the time, this is a good natural human mechanism that
cleans out bad people from the tribe. Bill Cosby, Harvey Weinstein, and
Jeffrey Epstein were all once prominent figures in culture who have all
been canceled. The term "cancel culture" is usually a negative term
because it is referring to the overactive sensitivity of canceling good
people over minor offenses (or perceived offenses). This has caused many
celebrities and creators to pull back in fear of being canceled by an
oversensitive culture who has the social media tools to Crucify them.
All of the social media companies, all at once, canceled Donald Trump,
Alex Jones, Andrew Tate, and Kanye West "without warning". From
looking into this, it is my belief that what causes all the social media
companies to cancel someone like that is largely because of the massive
amount of negative emails those companies have been getting. Meaning,
the biggest factor I'm seeing as to why someone gets canceled, is
connected to the amount of negative messages the hosting company is
getting. Trump, Jones, Tate, and Kanue are good examples of Thinkers who
all asked, "What did I DO wrong?" When in reality, they emotionally
upset the tribe, who then complained to the parent company, who is also
scared of bad feelings so they just cancel them to make it all go away.

Carl Jung
Our best guess is Jung was a FF-Ti/Ne-CP/S(B). Jung discovered the 4
Letters, Introvert/Extrovert, and the 8 Functions while working with
Sigmund Freud. Jung was baffled by the fact that different observers
(other doctors) of a patient where seeing different interpretations of
the same person. Jung was trying to use the Letters and Functions to
define terms so he and his colleagues could align their observations
better. Jung said there could be more than just 16 types, and the code
most likely unfolded, and there could be 360 types for all he knew. He
said there is a genetic unfolding pattern for a flower, so why not for a
human? Combining Jung's Functions, with Tony Robbins Human Needs, and
some basic high school genetic understanding of punnett squares, is how
we were able to unfold Jung's original personality code.

Car Model
We first heard this analogy from The Art of Speed Reading People by Paul
D. Tiger &amp; Barbara Barron-Tieger (page 38). We used this analogy
several times in 2010 in our old DaveSuperPowers personality videos. The
authors cite that they first got this analogy from the late Myers-Briggs
practitioner, Mary McCaully in 1980. This analogy works well to show the
big differences in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and troubling 4th Function. Here
is a direct quote from their book: "Picture a family of four taking a
car trip. In the front seat there are the two adults, and in the back
are the two children - one about ten years old, the other only three.
Think of the Lead [1st Function] as the adult driving, and the Second
[Function] as the other adult doing the navigating. Think of the
ten-year-old as the Third [Function], and the three-year-old as the
Least [last Function]. Clearly, you want the Lead to be in charge
(somebody has to drive!), and the Second to help navigate. But you still
have to pay attention to the kids (the third and least) in the back
seat - to break up fights, stop to go to the bathroom, etc. We all
operate at our best when we are using our Lead and Second Functions. But
occasionally, due to stress or other factors, we are forced to operate
out of our less preferred functions. When this happens - especially when
we use our least - it's as if the three-year-old suddenly jumped over
the seat and started driving the car, often with predictably disastrous
results!"

Car Model (OPS Critiques)
Here are a few insights we would add to the car model from what we've
found in our data: First, in the original analogy it is assuming that
your two non-dominant Functions (the kids in the back) are where the
problems come from. This is true, from one's self perspective. We all
blame our Demons for the world's problems, but in reality, our
recurring Tidalwaves are coming from the fear of the 4th Function and
the over obsessive addiction to the 1st Function. The 3 year old in the
back (4th Function) is the one who determines where the family is going.
For example, all ExxPs move away from the fear of control, order, and
consistency (their 4th Function). This is not a driving force in one's
life, but rather the driving force (which is why we can type people so
fast). The next thing to take in is the driver (1st Function) is on
drugs and is obsessively attacking the world for it's next fix. The 1st
Function is programmed to think that if I just do more of what I want to
do, it will calm the fears of the 4th Function. So the Te is doing more
work for everyone to calm that baby Fi, the Ni is building more of the
same old info to protect itself from the fear of Se-new, etc. So the 1st
and 4th Functions are where all the problems are in the car. The 2nd and
3rd Functions actually work very well together. So rather than a 10 year
old for the 3rd Function, it's more like a 19 year old. They are not
quite an "adult" but they can handle things in reality to some degree.
So while the 1st Function drug addict drives, and fear-ridden 4th
Function are going out of control, the 2nd Function and 3rd Function are
left with the responsibilities of being stable. This is where Double
Observing and Double Deciding comes into play. Then come the Jumpers.
Just under half of the population are Dominant in their 1st and 3rd
Function, not 1st and 2nd. So picture for some people, that 2nd copilot
is asleep so the 19 year old in the back seat takes over with the
navigation. Overall, the car model is a great analogy that illustrates
how the Functions all work and fight each other, just don't take it too
literally.

Cassie Jaye
A FF-Fi/Si-SC/B(P) that symbolizes your fears of the "other team" are
largely false. Cassie had a fear of the evil men and then was given the
task to transcribe the actual words of the "bad guys". What she found
by slowing down and actually listening to people on the other side was
that both sides were not that bad. There was no "evil monster" on this
side or that side. Rather just a bunch of scared, incomplete people
trying to do the best thing in their own way. She saw that she had more
in common with the opposition than differences. This released her from
the gripping fear of the other side and allowed her to start to have
some real dialogues that led to real improvements. We use Cassie as an
example of taking the time to actually look into what the opposition has
to say.

Catastrophizing
Psychology Today describes catastrophizing as, "a cognitive distortion
that prompts people to jump to the worst possible conclusion, usually
with very limited information or objective reason to despair. When a
situation is upsetting, but not necessarily catastrophic, they still
feel like they are in the midst of a crisis." We see this in those who
are stuck in past Trauma and are Fixed Mindset, especially in their
first and last Functions. For those who are keeping Standards in their
life, what helps, is to write out the "top 3" fears that I'm allowed
to freak out about. Then process that if the fear that comes up tomorrow
triggers me, and it's not on the list, I have to start working myself
out of it.

Catch a Few
A phrase we yell at people, usually behind their back, when they are
doing exactly what everyone of their type does and thinks it's real.
For example, the IxxJ complaining they are stuck by chaos, the IxxP
feeling like the tribe hates them, the ExxP saying they are controlled,
and the ExxJ feeling not good enough. From what we see, this is
happening in small ways at least 10 times a day, and almost no one
catches them. Most people have to wait for months or years for the
Tidalwave to build up, crash down on them, waste time blaming everyone
else, and then finally, maybe see that it's them a little bit. Setting
Objective Goals and trusting your Objective Math is what will help you
to start to catch a few before the tidalwave comes back.

Cat Energy
Quietly putting up with negativity from the tribe followed by a swing of
aggressively attacking the tribe. Like a cat, they will be quiet for
long periods of time and attack without warning. "Talk softly and carry
a big stick" is a common phrase attributed to this behavior. Both the
FF &amp; MF have a Masculine Introverted Decider and Feminine an
Extroverted Decider. The way the energy seems to flow is the Fem-De is
constantly being the moveable and putting up or letting go of negativity
from the tribe. Negativity is internalized and the "cat" puts the
pressure on their Masculine Di to grow. Look for where a person is
putting the pressure, on themselves (Cat, FF, MF) or others (Dog, FM,
MM)? See Dog Energy.

Cauldron
Usually refers to the Blast lasts and how they suppress and don't
communicate their thoughts and feelings. They hold everything in and it
builds up over time. Eventually it all comes out at once in a giant,
toxic Blast.

Certified
We don't hold any credit to a MBTI or any other personality system's
certification. There is not enough science or reproducibility behind any
of the personality certifications out there. All of them are built off
of Subjective Typing. They often consist of reading material, live
events, and a type of questionnaire. There is no objective, measurable,
Falsifiable score that can be checked in any way. For example, you can
be certified to do oil changes on cars. This means, after you take the
course, you can to a pass or fail degree, change oil on cars. There is
an objective skill on the other side of the certification. With
personality certifications this is not the case. People who have been
"certified" have not increased their ability to Objectively Type in
any way. They are still Subjectively Typing after they are certified.
Certifications are, however, a good financial source for a personality
business and we respect that. Most people don't care about objective
results anyway, they just want to pay money for the Status Game.

Change the World
For us, when we hear people preaching how their idea is going to
"change the world" we roll our eyes and cringe. Changing the world is
great, we are all for it. Henry Ford, Adolf Hitler, Martin Luther King
Jr, Steve Jobs, Bill Gates, Jeff Bezos, and Elon Musk have all changed
the world. So three things to understand here. First, changing the world
is great, we are all changing the world by some Butterfly Effect degree.
So we are all for the act of changing the world. The second thing we are
saying is, this is a universal program that we all have so don't be
drunk on the dilution that you are special. Where we see people go mad
is they obsess over their discovery and this means all others must die.
So have a thing you're passionate about, but also know you are being
motivated by a program we all have, so it's not as real as you feel.
The third thing is, Zen shows that you are going to be more at peace if
you accept reality as it is. The far majority (everybody) who wants to
change the world is motivated by their Demon fears and are just here to
save us with their Saviors. This always turns toxic over the decades.
For us, we have something that can "change the world" (the OPS code)
but we have let go of the delusion and fear that the world somehow needs
this in any way. The world has been going on for billions of years,
everything is moving along just fine with or without us. So producing
something that helps others is extra credit and is done out of love and
abundance, not need, fear, and default programs. See Ted-Talks.

Channel Changing
Savior Oe has a pattern of behavior of not being able to stay on a topic
longer than 30 seconds. Mid sentence they will interrupt themselves and
jump to a new subject. We call this channel changing because it's like
someone flipping through the TV channels never settling on any one show.

Chaos
Usually referring to Oe, see Extroverted Observer.

Chaos Monkey
A funny term that we use for anyone with Savior Oe.

Chapter Talking
Opposite of Oe Channel Changing, chapter talking is what the Savior
Oi's do. In conversation, they will keep coming back to the same couple
of topics they are working on. They will stack observations on top of
each other that come to conclusions. Like a book, one chapter builds on
another. So for example, when watching a one hour video from a Savior
Oi, what they are talking about in the first part of the video is
somehow connected to what they are talking about in the last half of the
video. The Masculine Savior Si can be easier to see than the Feminine
Ni. Compared to the Savior Oe's, the Savior Oi's are not randomly
talking about one thing, and then interrupting themselves about a
totally unrelated topic that they never conclude on like the Savior
Oe's do.

Chess
The common phrase is, "It's like chess" and is usually referring to
the similar patterns of elimination and strategy in the Typing
Procedure. Chess, like many things in life, is not as simple as just
memorizing a few steps and then doing what you're told. There are rules
to chess, but any good player knows that there are exceptions to every
rule. For example, it's a good rule to not bring the queen out too
early in the game. Generally this is true, most of the time for most
people. The reverse is also true. If you bring your queen out too early,
you have statistically increased your chances of losing. But this does
not therefore mean to never bring your queen out early. If you know what
you're doing, go for it. This involves not only memorizing all the
basic rules, but also putting in the 10,000 hours of experience, and
having the ability to deal with contradictions and exploit non-perfect
opportunities. How this applies to the Typing Procedure is, generally we
say to go after Observer vs Decider or Di vs De early if possible.
Don't go after the "queen" (a harder coin to prove) like their middle
Animals right away. Save that to the end of the game. But then you open
a video of the next person you are typing and all you can see is that
they have Consume and Blast in the middle. You can not, not see it. The
checklist says to do this later, but if you know what you're doing, go
ahead and "jump the queen" early, but YOU are responsible to triple
check that it's not a trap. You don't know what you are really looking
at because you just got to know this person, so be careful and
understand that the other person's job is to trick you so you lose the
game (get their type wrong). So, it's like chess, play aggressively,
stay awake, and be responsible to win and not complain when things get
hard.

Child
Someone who takes more than they give. The Child lives on the default
side of the Pain Equation. They are unaware (or don't care) about all
the responsibilities they are ignoring, so therefore they get massive
pain later. Others in their lives have to babysit and provide for them.
The Child lives for subjective pain avoidance and pleasure in the short
term, and then gets a destructive wave of pain later. The Child can be
someone of any age, oftentimes another name for Beta.

Chinese Prison
This phrase most often refers to the stage in the Hero's Journey where
Bruce Wayne sent himself to a Chinese prison in order to toughen up.
Like most people today, the environment is too soft and does not put
enough pressure on us to truly grow to become strong. You see those who
truly take responsibility for their own growth trap themselves into some
kind of objective arena that forces them to grow. Something where they
have to learn to fight to survive. Once you hold the keys to the prison,
and you have made hell your home, then the Universe says you are ready
to move up.

Chip Away
It seems to be a natural human trait to want to jump into a task, get it
all done right now, Saviors only, and then get that large dopamine hit
of a job well done. Our bodies pump a steady lie into our bloodstream
that the faster we go, the sooner we'll be moving up the Social
Hierarchy. The chip away system is something we've learned from Wally
Wallington and the Shawshank Redemption movie. As we get older in life,
there are less and less "real fast projects we can get done right now
with our Saviors only." More and more projects require all the
Functions, teamwork, lots of moving parts, and large amounts of time.
For example, writing all of these terms could not be done in a short
amount of time. It was something I set aside some time in the morning
and committed to getting just 4 terms done a day on average. Yes, it
took many months to complete, but the job got done without quitting or
burnout.

Choice
Usually this is in the context of which Susan David speaks about, and
that is choosing to not follow our default reactions. Every other
positive Hero also speaks about this, but Susan breaks it down the best.
She says that with every response (getting triggered by our Demons)
there is a small window of choice between stimulus and response. When we
are younger, the triggering of our Demons and us freaking out feels like
one action that is unbreakable. As we get older, we've seen this
pattern so many times we start to become conscious of it and even stand
outside of it. Andrew Huberman explains that there is a powerful
chemical change in our bodies when we "choose". For example, if you
are taking a hot shower and someone turns off the hot water, you freak
out and are flooded with default stress chemicals. Weirdly, if you
CHOOSE to take a cold shower, the physical body has the same reaction,
yet your brain is now flooded with empowering chemicals! This is why
when you're having a bad day, the Heroes all say, to intentionally
choose and accept the challenge.

CIA
The Central Intelligence Agency and the FBI have a deep interest in
knowing and understanding the motivations of human behavior. The extreme
predictable potential of the OPS Profiles would help such agencies
understand the motivations and core driving fears of those they are
targeting. This OPS code is a great self growth tool, but is also a
weapon and works best when it is being used without the person knowing.
Most people just argue with their type and have a hard time seeing their
true motivations and actions. Meanwhile, everyone on the outside of them
are just rolling their eyes and can easily see how much this controlling
person really is an IxxJ for example. A primary job of the CIA is to
covertly study a person without them knowing. For example, say they are
trying to figure out the motivations and patterns of a certain foreign
leader. Once the personality type of the target is figured out, you now
have access to endless data by looking into hundreds of other people of
that same type. An analogy is, I don't have to have your particular car
or cell phone to know all about how it works. I can just study hundreds
of other phones and cars that are the same make and model as yours. This
is how we are reaching such high predictability levels on individuals
without talking to them directly. (Every ExxP, this is your chance to
freak out.)

Clark Kent
We use this name for a couple different examples. First, we use it when
talking about how the public will think two people are "type twins"
just because they have the same color shirt on, same hair, and same
glasses. The two people don't actually look anything alike, but they
have the same Sensor on, and that is enough to fool most people. Dave
will also use the term Clark Kent to make fun of Shan's Blast Last. In
the middle of doing a task, suddenly she's gone! Just like how Clark
Kent is always gone when trouble shows up.

Climbing over the Table
This is a phrase we use when referring to someone who is extremely
Extroverted, most likely PB/C(S). While in an interview, they will
literally climb over the table to be closer to the other person and/or
to be more animated with their point. This is used as an example for
people that often type themselves upside down. With their Liar Words
they will tell you they are an Introvert, while they are climbing over
the table and waving their arms in your face.

Clustering
What we mean by clustering is that a physical or psychological trait
tends to show up in a measurable percentage of the time in a specific
type. For example, out of 50 male, caucasian, MF-Ne/Fi's we have on
file, 90% of them have red hair (or at least red hair in their beards).
This does not mean that the next white, male ENFP we type will have red
hair, but it does mean the chances of it are very high. Red hair
"clusters" in this type, but this does not prove if someone is an ENFP
or not. Clustering physical traits (see Genetic Factors) are like
Anecdotes. Many people of a certain type may display a certain trait or
action, but that trait or action does not prove that they are a certain
type.

Cognitive Dissonance
Having contradictory beliefs and actions and oftentimes being unaware of
these contradictions. A simple example is someone whose beliefs are that
hotdogs are unhealthy and should be avoided, but their attitude and
actions are that they enjoy eating hotdogs. The beliefs and the actions
are opposite or even hypocritical. From the outside, it feels like the
person is lying to you, and with one side of the brain, they kind of
are. The low character person who always messes everything up asks you
to borrow your car and they promise they will bring it right back. You
know, and everyone else knows that they are going to mess this up, so
why don't they know that? If you question a person about something they
have cognitive dissonance on, they will freak out and punish you for it.
One program of the brain, our actual behavior, and other programs of the
brain, are not always aligned. As a person becomes more self conscious,
the cognitive dissonance is resolved.

Cognitive Function
Mechanisms of the brain that take in, process, and execute information.
There are many more cognitive skills or cognitive Functions than just
the 8 Jungian Functions. See Functions.

Coins, Binary
We are tracking 512 personality types using binary coins. So the math
says, 2x2x2x2x2x2x2x2x2=512. Or 2 to the 9th power. It should be noted
that the checklist we use in the Elimination Tool for the Typing
Procedure is often 10-12 coins. The Typing Procedure is working
backwards from the question of, "What checklist works best in order to
end up getting the same type as my partner?" Therefore, adding in
additional coins into the Typing Checklist does help the Operator. As
far as the 9 genetic coins, this is what they would be as far as we can
tell at this time:
1) Observer / Decider
2) Introverted Decider / Extroverted Decider
3) Introverted Observer / Extroverted Observer
4) Feeling / Thinking
5) Sensing / Intuition
6) Second Animal (Conditional Logic depending on 1st Animal)
7) Third Animal (Conditional Logic depending on 2nd Animal)
8) Feminine Sensory / Mascuine Sensory
9) Feminine Extroverted Decider / Masculine Extroverted Decider

Coins, 9 Genetic
We see all the parts of the personality code working in binary coins.
For example, Thinking and Feeling are on a binary coin with each other.
What you do to one, has an opposite and equal reaction to the other. So
if Thinking is a Savior, then Feeling is a Demon. If Thinking is at the
very top, then Feeling is at the very bottom. If Thinking is Masculine,
then Feeling is Feminine. If Thinking is Extroverted, then Feeling is
Introverted. All of the Letters (S/N, F/T), Functions (Fi/Te, Ti/Fe,
Si/Ne, Ni/Se), Observer/Decider, Human Needs (Di/De, Oi/Oe), Animals
(Sleep/Play, Consume/Blast) Sexuals (Male/Female, Feminine/Masculine),
and Modalities (Tester/Kinesthetic, Visual/Audio) all work on binary
coins. We believe this is the foundation that makes the OP system
objective. Unlike all other personality systems, you have to be able to
say, "If this is A, then this is not A" to reach some kind of
objectivity that you can build on. Without clearly defined binary coins,
it is impossible to be able to objectively type someone.

Cold Showers
There are many health benefits of taking cold showers such as,
strengthening the immune system, boosting hormones, tightening skin, and
increasing energy. What has been extremely useful, is using cold showers
as an example of the power of Choice. We all become tired, slow, and
depressed as life wears us down. Yet, somehow we see all the Heroes at
the top going through 1000x more problems than the average person each
day. So how the hell are they so energized? They have chemically gotten
themselves into top Lobster mode and they are powered by high doses of
positive chemicals. One small trick that does work some of the time
(won't work on all your problems) is simply looking at a problem and
actually choosing it. Just as you choose to take a cold shower, it
produces positive chemicals. Yet, if a cold shower was thrown on you by
surprise that same experience would be negative. Like they have all been
saying, there really is a (chemical) power to our internal choice, and a
cold shower is a great place to start. Not only will it create literal
positive chemicals in your body, but it will also strengthen your
personal ability to choose when going through a hard time.

Complainers
A complainer is someone who thinks that if they just cry and complain
enough that someone above them is going to come in and solve it for
them. Complaining can be defined by pointing out a problem, but
expecting others to solve it for them. Complaining only goes up, meaning
people only complain to those who are doing more than them. It is
impossible to complain to someone who is doing less than you because
you've been there and know how hard it is. Complainers tend to cluster
with other complainers in online groups. Because the Adults don't stay
long in these groups, they become an unmoderated echo chamber of demands
that someone else should do.

Conditional Logic
Of the 9 genetic coins, steps 1-5, 8,9 are all straightforward, binary,
this-or-that, coins. Steps 6 &amp; 7 (determining the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th
Animal order) uses conditional logic. What we mean by this, is steps 6
&amp; 7 follow some limited math based upon the math above. For example,
let's break down Dave's type with the 9 coins/steps above. 1:
Observer, 2: Di, 3: Oi, 4: Feeling, 5: Intuition. When you put those
first 5 coins/steps together you get Ni/Fi-Sleep. So, if you know
someone is Savior Sleep (from steps 1-5) then they can only be
Sleep/Consume or Sleep/Blast for their first two Savior Animals. Why is
this? Because a person can not be Sleep/Play for their first two
Animals. The Animal Stack has a rule that you have to have one
Information Animal, and one Energy Animal for your first two Saviors.
You can not have two Information Animals or two Energy Animals as
Saviors. This Animal Stack rule therefore gives us conditional logic for
Animal order once the first Animal is determined by figuring out the two
Savior Functions.

Confidence, Building
Ed Mylett has the best understanding of how to build self confidence
we've seen. Ed is an ESTJ with Fem-Fi at the bottom, so building self
confidence would be the HARDEST for him. What Ed does is he sets and
keeps promises to himself. Maybe you feel like you are worthless and
your lack of results do in fact show that? You can't just Hoo-Raw your
way out of that. You actually have to grow and build your way out of
that. Your body doesn't care "WHAT" promises you make to yourself...
It only cares about that it can trust you. For example, you are allowed
to make a promise to yourself that you are going to get up tomorrow and
cry, eat ice cream, and play videogames all day (you were going to do
that anyway). The stupid task didn't change, but your brain wiring
starts to learn that it can trust you. Of course over time, you can
start to make small positive promises to yourself. The point is, focus
on the habit creation of just getting your brain and body to trust you
because you keep those promises to yourself. So set those promises small
when starting out.

Consciousness
Our best guess at consciousness is that it is a collection of many
programs working together and reflecting each other. The human brain is
made up of hundreds (or thousands) of different programs and functions.
There are even programs that help us jump from program to program. There
are even programs that give us the feeling of viewing the programs. Your
laptop computer has hundreds of programs working together. There is no
one place where the "computer" is located. You can point to the
screen, keyboard, interface, etc, but none of these programs are the
computer as a whole. In the same way, there is a "you" (or computer)
but "you" are actually made up of many programs working together.
Beings with fewer programs would include bacteria and insects. Beings
with more programs would include reptiles and mammals. Then there are
beings with even more programs like Ai and humans. Somewhere along the
line of having more programs, consciousness (or the ability to reflect
and see other programs) starts to emerge. consciousness is on a
spectrum. Some animals like chimps and dolphins may have a higher
consciousness than some humans. So consciousness is not "there or not
there". Rather, consciousness seems to increase the more a being has
more programs that start to reflect and see other programs. Thought and
language then transmits information from program to program. Like a
computer, the faster the programs can wire and fire to each other, the
more the illusion of "oneness" appears. Our current theory on
consciousness is the same idea that Michio Kaku also arrived at.

Consume
(Di+Oe) Introverted Animal, opposite of Blast, Takes you along, trails
off, perfectionist, learns alone, feels like they don't know enough
Taking in for the self. Very much like how the market describes
Consumers in sales. They are responsible to constantly be looking out
for new (Oe) and they are doing it for themselves (Di). They are not
responsible to organize and Blast-produce all that they take in, so
things tend to pile up.

Consume Belly
People that are Savior Consume, do tend to enjoy and eat more than
Demons Consumers. Many Demon Consumers forget to eat, don't like to
eat, don't have time to etc, etc. Savior Consumers (sometimes even
"foodies") really enjoy the entire experience of new foods and eating.
They also get alot out of the social experience of dining and going out.
A "Consume Belly" is usually referring to a masculine, male, ExxP who
naturally has a skinny or even athletic frame, but from years of
over-consumption, they have a big pot-belly. And it's not just the
physical appearance of the big belly, but also the whole vibe of the
person who just wants more, more, more.

Consume Last
Energy Dominant, Won't listen, answers from God, leaps before they
look. People with Consume last have overactive Blast so they feel ready
to get started when they are not. They naturally have a very
authoritative tone that makes them sound like they are getting their
answers straight from God. They learn best by experience and teaching
others. The Consume last is driven by the strong desire to produce. They
will continue to push forward even though they are running on empty.
They can get started quickly and pass everyone up, but then start to
level off because they are stuck doing the same old thing. They feel
like they never have time to slow down and take in new info for
themselves.

Consume Report
Bringing people along for the story in great detail and not getting to
the point. People with Savior Consume (SC, CS, CP, PC) have gathered in
great detail that is important to them. They have Demon Blast and have a
hard time organizing their thoughts into a coherent message with a
beginning, middle, and an end. They will constantly Channel Change as
they talk so it's hard to know what they are getting at. A Consume
report you are left saying to yourself, "I don't know what you're
saying" while a Blast Report you are left thinking, "I get what
you're saying, I just don't believe you."

Contradictions
A person's ability to manage contradictions seems to be related to
Mindset as well as Intelligence. There are some people that find, bring
up, and make others responsible for supposed contradictions constantly.
Some people naturally work out the supposed contradictions and move on.
For others the more contradictions they find, the more reasons and
excuses they now have to not move forward.

Control
Usually referring to Oi, see Introverted Observer.

Conversation Dominators
When someone shows a pattern of behavior of taking over a conversation,
interrupting, and making everyone else in the room feel uncomfortable.
The way this usually plays out is someone else brings up a topic and
starts to discuss it normally with others. The conversation dominator
immediately jumps in and tries to tell the person's story for them.
It's not what the dominator is saying that is the problem, it's the
out of balance of the energy. Someone else was trying to casually bring
up a point for discussion and the dominator has already taken over and
is doing all the talking on a point they didn't even bring up. The
dominator will often take this time to self process and go on long
detailed stories about themselves. Everyone in the room gets quiet and
hopes that if they just let the dominator get all their unresolved
energy out that others will be allowed to speak. The dominator doesn't
have the ability to self regulate in a conversation so the more they
talk, the more anxious they feel, and the more they talk. Over time
people are trained to just not bring conversations up around the
dominator. The dominator now has less social interactions and therefore
they take over even more the next time they finally get to be in a
conversation.

Cool Guy
This is usually referring to someone who is Savior Di, Double Decider,
ExxP, and SF. We see that a large percentage of MF-Se/Fi-CP types play
the role of the "cool guy". This just means that they are not
NT-nerdy, aren't socially awkward, are liked by people, and are not
needy. Charlamagne, Kim Kardashian, Steve Harvey, Clint Eastwood, and
Drake are examples of what society sees as "cool guys".

Coping
Like many self growth teachers say, we also see that most people in
society are just coping. By the time someone is 30 years old, they feel
beaten down, backed in a corner, and have more problems and less energy.
Therefore, they have given up on their dreams and are just looking to
lessen the pain of life. Laziness, distractions, and short-term dopamine
hits is what they turn to. Their thinking becomes very short sided and
they just try and make it through the day. Looking forward to the next
escape of the weekend or next vacation is all they have to hope for. See
Couch Dweller.

Core Coins
We are tracking 512 personality types that are composed of 9 genetic
coins (See Coins, 9 Genetic above). We all have the same 4 core coins
below that interact with each other to create Temperament, Needs,
Functions, Animals, etc. Our differences and complexities are just which
order they are in, and which are Saviors and Demons.

1) Sensing / Intuition (Observing Letters)
2) Feeling / Thinking (Deciding Letters)
3) Introverted / Extroverted
4) Feminine / Masculine

Core Parts
Refers to the parts of one's personality type that matter the most and
are the most provable. Let's use Shan's type for example,
FM-Te/Se-PC/S(B). The first core part that matters the most is that
she's an ExxJ. Second would be the Saviors, Te/Se. Third would be the
first Animal, Play. Non-core parts, or parts that don't matter as much
are the two middle Animals and the Sexuals. The non-core parts also have
less Crosschecks and are harder to prove.

Couch Dweller
We have heard this specific story from many people in our lives; "I
just want to make enough money so I have time to relax and hang out with
my friends." When you step back and look at how 99% of people live, it
is very much like that. Most people barely make it through the day, fall
onto the couch when they get home, have a drink, and just binge watch
videos. On the weekends they look forward to hanging out with others who
have the exact same life as them. Because there is no real objective
challenge or mission in life, the latest and loudest small problem or
drama becomes the thing to talk about. People will say things like, "I
don't ever want to have alot of money or be famous because of all the
problems that would bring. I'd rather be able to hide away on my couch
and just relax." The problem with this universal Coping is that it
leads to long term weakness and depression.

Covid Quitters
A term we use referring to people who quit all the time and then milk
the pandemic to get out of more work. We of course respect and
understand the precautions needed to keep people safe, and we are not
referring to that. Rather, we are referring to a person who has shown
consistently over the years to find any excuse, legitimate or
illegitimate to quit or not do their job. During the pandemic, you could
see everyone's identities more amplified. The hard workers found a way
to get more done, and the quitters had the best excuse ever to do less
work.

Crackhead
A nickname the Blast and Play types (BP, PB, especially the Sleep last).
Due to their high energy (followed by crashes) they often are accused by
their friends for being on crack.

Cracking the Code
Assuming that we really did crack the genetic personality code (see OPS
Proof) the question then becomes, how did we do it? We don't have any
formal training in psychology, nor is it a major passion of ours. In our
opinion, we were able to do it for four reasons. The first reason is we
consciously chose to go into the darkness and stay there. We were both
internally tormented by our life Tidalwaves as well as under constant
external attack from those around us. For many years, our minds, bodies,
and souls were suffering under the fear of death. Unlike the first 30
years of our lives, we took the advice of the Alpha's and moved towards
the darkness. We changed the thoughts in our minds from, "How do I get
out of this?" to, "How do I become one with this?" Like a drowning
person thrashing around in shark infested waters, we could see that the
more that we fought the darkness, the more it consumed us. By becoming
more Zen and accepting that the Universe is 50/50 light and darkness, we
could just move through it. This allowed our minds to see and accept the
darkness in ourselves and start to see the cause-and-effect choices we
were making that were causing our subjective hell. An OPS Core Belief of
ours is, unless a person is going through and accepting the darkness,
they can never truly see themselves and therefore are still going to be
haunted by anxiety and depression.

The second reason we believe we of all people cracked the personality
code is that all of the important components were already discovered,
all we did was put them together. Carl Jung discovered the 4 Letters, 8
Functions, and 16 Types. Tony Robbins discovered the 4 Human Needs.
Donald Hoffman and others discovered that we are largely run by
Evolutionary Forces that are built for fitness not seeing reality.
Robert Greene showed us that there are consistent human dark forces that
can be measured. All the motivational Alpha's gave us the courage to go
into the darkness. Genetics discovered that traits tend to run in binary
coins and in sets of 4 (Punnett Squares).

The third factor we see is largely our Saviors. We (Dave and Shan)
happen to be the exact opposite type of each other which causes alot of
sparky energy as well as the ability to see all of the Human Needs in a
Savior state. Plus the fact that we had some experience working together
in business gave us alot of good experience at complex problem solving.
Out of all the "impossible" problems we've had to solve over the
years, the personality code was by far not the hardest one. Trying to
figure out business systems, getting out of depression, and raising a
kid is far harder.

This led us to our fourth tool we used to crack the code, and that is
high repetition. We had a large whiteboard and YouTube was hitting scale
at the time, so we had hundreds of trials we could run. We would come up
with a theory, draw it out on the whiteboard, then grab 10 random people
off of YouTube and attempt to type them objectively (independently of
each other). We would fail, pull what we could from the data, and repeat
until we started to get traction. The fact that there is some scientific
measurability with extreme predictability is why we believe we cracked
the personality code.

Cranked Up
Or "Cranked all the way up" usually refers to someone who is the most
Extroverted, Sleep Last, and/or Double Masculine. Examples include:
CP/B(S), BP/C(S), PB/C(S).

Criticism, OPS
In the scientific sense, the burden of proof is on us to show that the 9
coins we are tracking are truly genetic. So the personality system needs
to be criticized so it can improve. We stay in touch with many people
from around the world by email who are constantly pointing out problems
and helping us improve the system. The best place to challenge OPS is
the Dividing Line, our entire system is based around it.

Critics
undefined

Crosschecks
Referring to the typing process and having multiple crosschecks and
examples for a coin. The more crosschecks and examples of patterns of
behavior over time (not anecdotes out of context) the more probable a
coin is. For example, if you are suspecting Te at the top, then you need
to see the crosschecks of ExxJ, Savior De, Savior Thinking, Double
Observing, Not Double Deciding, Demon Feeling, Demon Identity, etc. Each
of these crosschecks need to be seen many times and all the parts must
match up. See Provable.

Crucify
When the forces of Groupthink and Cancel Culture reach such a point that
the crowd wished great pain and suffering on someone. Justice is no
longer good enough, the crowd has reached a Mob Mentality and now wants
blood. At the time of writing this a young man ran up and tackled Dave
Chappelle on stage. This happened shortly after Will Smith slapped Chris
Rock at the Oscars. The emotional tension and frustration is still
unprocessed and resolved by the culture. So when this man ran up and
tackled Dave, he was then chased down and beaten up pretty badly by
security and others. He was seen taken away on a stretcher, with a
bruised face and broken arm. There was nothing technically "wrong"
with how this situation was handled, rather what's interesting is the
group's hatred for this kid. Most people's reaction is that they are
happy he got beat up and wish he got hurt more. Now, this kid could be
mentally unstable, or just a decent person who did something really
stupid. The point here is, this event was one of many examples where the
tribe has alot of built up frustrations and they are just looking to
take it out on someone. If a celebrity climbs to high too fast, they
cause alot of emotional tension for the tribe. One slip up, and they get
Canceled (crucified).

Cry Routine
Why let crying hit you like a tidalwave? Why not be aware of how often
you are breaking down and crying and just schedule it in and cry on your
own time? If you are growing, you have pressure and pain building up.
It's your choice to have the healing benefits of getting that out or
not. Every week, 3-5 nights a week, for 25 years (ages 14-39) Dave would
run down to the park or school and do pullups and cry. Since we have
shared this, many other people from around the world have also started
doing crying routines. Dave says, "Are you man enough to deal with your
own emotions or do you shove them away like a little bitch?"

CT Fletcher
We typed CT as a MM-Se/Fe-PB/C(S). We see a clustering of super strong,
muscular, fighters in the MM-Se/Fe doc. CT Fletcher is one of the most
caring, loving, human beings we've followed. Externally, he is the king
of beasts. His workout programs are considered torture sessions by
professional athletes! People think they push themselves to failure,
until they workout with CT. He motivated millions of young people to
stop complaining and really push themselves. Dave especially was really
inspired and helped by CT in the early days. We had just never seen
someone who could make pain, fear, and insecurity run from them. CT
taught us to go on the attack and the one thing you can control is the
amount of effort you give.

Customer Avatar
This is essentially a detailed profile of the ideal customer in order to
find, sell, and keep future customers. The more you understand who your
ideal customer is, what they look like, their habits, interests,
challenges, aspirations, fears, motivations, etc, the more you'll be
able to connect with them. Knowing who your customer is not is equally
important. The current OPS customer avatar is someone who is already in
the personality and self growth space with a specific objective problem
they are trying to solve. Meaning, our current material is not yet
catered for the masses who just want to use personality in a subjective,
self-serving way. See OPS Split.